1000
best


bartender's

recipes









 MUST-HAVE SHELF REFERENCE FOR HOME BARTENDERS!


 1000 drink recipes for every occasion

 Classic drinks and today's hottest concoctions

 Find out what you'll need to tend bar at your next party

 Hangover cures for the morning after



Suzi Parker

1000
BEST

BARTENDER'S
RECIPES





















SUZI PARKER


Copyright (c) 2005 by Suzi Parker

Cover and internal design (c) 2005 by Sourcebooks, Inc. Sourcebooks and the colophon are registered trademarks of Sourcebooks, Inc.

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means including information storage and retrieval systems-except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles or reviews-with-out permission in writing from its publisher, Sourcebooks, Inc.

This publication is designed to provide accurate and authorita-tive information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional service. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.-From a Declaration of Principles Jointly Adopted by a Committee of the Amer-ican Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations

All brand names and product names used in this book are trade-marks, registered trademarks, or trade names of their respective holders. Sourcebooks, Inc., is not associated with any product or vendor in this book.

Some recipes contained herein may call for raw or undercooked eggs. Please consult with your physician prior to consumption.

The Author and Sourcebooks, Inc. shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to any loss, damage, or injury caused or alleged to be caused directly or indirectly by the information in this book.

Published by Sourcebooks, Inc.

P.O. Box 4410, Naperville, Illinois 60567-4410

 961-3900

FAX: (630) 961-2168 www.sourcebooks.com

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Parker, Suzi.

1000 best bartender's recipes / Suzi Parker.

p. cm.
ISBN 978-1-4022-2015-9	91-4022-0547-3 (alk. paper)

  Bartending. 2. Cocktails. I. Title: One thousand best bar-tender's recipes. II. Title.

TX951.P35 2005

641.8'74--dc22

2005016586

Printed and bound in the United States of America. LB 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1


















To Estelle and Billy Parker who advised me to mix the drinks instead of drink them and my partner-in-crime Glen Hooks, always calm as Gandhi in my wild universe.



TABLE OF CONTENTS

Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vii Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . viii Bartending 101 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

Chapter One:

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails-

The All-Night Party Crowd's Eye-Openers . . 19

Chapter Two:

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails-

Making Sinatra Proud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71

Chapter Three:

Champagne Concoctions-

Park Avenue Potions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Chapter Four:

Martini Madness-

Bond and Babe Drinks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173

Chapter Five:

After Dinner Dreams-

Turn Your Lamp Down Low. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

Chapter Six:

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks-

Hula 'Til It Hurts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279

Chapter Seven:

Shots and Slammers for the Perpetual 21-Year-Old-

Sorority and Fraternity Fantasia . . . . . . . . . 335

Chapter Eight:

Vintage Cocktails-

Gone but Not Forgotten . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 387

Chapter Nine:

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics-

'Tis the Season . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 439

Chapter Ten:

Virgin Jacks and Jills-

For the Sober One in All of Us . . . . . . . . . . . 497

Chapter Eleven:

Cures without Cussing-

The Morning After . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549


Index of Liquors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 553

Index of Recipe Names . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 558

About the Author . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

It may seem strange to thank your parents first and foremost in a cocktail book, but I have to thank mine-Billy and Estelle Parker. Because I was an only child, I always got to tag along with my dad and mom on business trips around the country. These often occurred in swanky restaurants in the heyday of disco-the 1970s. While the food was delicious, the business conversations were dull for a kid. The flashing lights and glittery bottles of the adjoining bars, on the other hand, fascinated me, and I fell in love with bars and mixing at an early age. Later in life, when I realized I needed a trade to fall back on in case journalism failed, my dad sent me to bar-tending school. So thanks, Mom and Dad.

   I'd also like to thank the numerous friends and colleagues who sent me ideas for drinks for this col-lection. In no particular order: Lucy Tallon, cocktail goddess extraordinaire of London and Africa; Stephanie Owen, vintage cocktail archivist; Stephanie Caruthers, creator of the most unique cocktail thus far in the twenty-first century; Alex Heard, long-time editor who knows a good Southern cocktail; and Wanda Stone and Kathy Williams, keepers of the cookbooks.

   A special thanks to the person who keeps me on track for all projects, my agent, Erin Reel-Los Ange-les superbabe and visionary who listens carefully and makes wise decisions about the future and direction of my work.

   Most of all to Wonder twin Glen Hooks who went beyond the call of duty to help with this book. As always, he offered unwavering support, silly laughter (especially when I was drowning in thousands of cocktail recipes at an ungodly hour of the night), keen insight, sage advice, and the desperately needed push (with plenty of Starbucks coffee) to make sure this book was born.
   






I N T R O D U C T I O N -

Set-ups








o argument: cocktails are sexy and sophisti-Ncated. They sparkle with mysterious possibili-ties. Imagine a night in a neon-lit club. A handsome man spots a gorgeous woman. He sends a drink over. She wonders: who is this good-looking man who just bought me a Cosmopolitan? He wonders: if I buy her two, will she go back to my place? After three,

will she still be standing?

   Endless seduction lingers in a cocktail glass regardless of season or setting. The beauty of a cold clear martini, a glass of perfect red sangria, or a sparkling vintage concoction transformed into a twenty-first century incarnation is liquid anticipa-tion. For some, the thrill is in the warmth that comes with downing one of these potables. For others, it's all in the shake, stir, or blend.

   When I was four, I toddled into a bar adjoined to a restaurant owned by my parents' friend. Instantly, I was hooked, not by the darkness of the joint or the local television celebs who frequented the place, but
   
I n t ro d u c t i o n	1

by the jewels behind the bar. The bottles of amber and emerald, sapphire and ruby hypnotized me. I had never seen anything more beautiful.

   The fascination continued through my teens. Whenever I dined out, a Shirley Temple was a must. My dad preferred scotch and water; my mother straight water. Curiosity about how liquor tasted was never my game; the life of a barfly was hardly appealing. No, I wanted to mix. Let me behind the bar and I'd whip up a concoction to rival any.

   Eventually bartending school beckoned as a wacky adventure I longed to have, and I mixed to my heart's content. Mixology is certainly a handy trade to have at parties to win friends and influence peo-ple. And practice does, indeed, make perfect.

   It's impossible to learn all the drinks in the world. Literally thousands exist and more are created every day along with new liqueurs-some even appear to glow in the dark. Certainly, in the early part of the twentieth century, a mixer would have better luck learning all the cocktails than he or she would today. Mixologists often named cocktails after the hotel or bar that birthed them or for the patron who desired them. Cocktails such as the Daiquiri and the Mojito became famous in other countries and found their way to popularity in the United States. In today's fast-paced world of starlets and playboys jetting around the globe, the international cocktail is no longer so easy to define.

   But a good drink is. Whether it's a Bloody Mary before noon, a non-alcoholic Safe Sex on the Beach after a sweaty workout, or a Garza's nightcap at bed-time, a well-made drink can be exhilarating, like, well, sex. And, depending on the category, just as compli-cated. Take tropical drinks, which are built with vari-ous kinds of rum and juices to get that island feel. But the classic drinks, the ones that have stayed through the decades from Sinatra to Sting, often only have two ingredients, but they are no less for it.
   
   In the end, drinking-like wardrobes and lovers- comes down to personal taste. You can wear the most popular fashions, but that isn't nearly as much fun as finding your own style or yes, your own cock-tail. That's where this book comes in. Use it to try something new and unexpected. Maybe, after a healthy amount of sampling, you'll find that you really do like the same kind of martinis your friends, or even your dear old dad, like. Or you may simply be happy to stick with the frozen daiquiri you loved in college. With a little courage and experimentation, though, you might just find your drink of choice is something else entirely.

   So explore the liquor store. Buy something exotic. Begin mixing. Expect a whole new world of adven-ture to open up. And remember this toast: may your enemies be lethargic and your lovers energetic.

   Publisher's Note: This book and the recipes con-tained herein are intended for those of a legal drink-ing age. Please drink responsibly and ensure you and your guests have a designated driver when consum-ing alcoholic beverages.
   





















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES






BARTENDING 101












ust like in a kitchen, a functional bar requires cer-Jtain basic items: liquors, liqueurs, wine and beer, mixers, garnishes, booster ingredients, barware,
and glassware.

THE LIQUORS

Bourbon

Brandy

Canadian whiskey

Dry gin

Rum

Scotch whiskey

Tequila

Vodka

THE LIQUEURS

Triple sec

Cr\E8me de menthe

Cr\E8me de cacao

Kahl\FAa (or a coffee liqueur)

Amaretto

Drambuie

Benedictine

Cointreau

WINE AND BEER

Dry vermouth

Sweet vermouth

White wine

Red wine

White zinfandel

Champagne (optional)

Beer-one six-pack regular, one six-pack light

MIXERS

Bloody Mary mix (store-bought or homemade)

Club soda

Cola

Cranberry juice cocktail

Cream (heavy and light)

Cream of coconut

Ginger ale

Grapefruit juice

Grenadine

Lemon juice

Lime juice (Most popular: Rose's. Not to be used as a substitute for fresh lime juice.)
Orange juice

Orgeat

Pi\F1a Colada mix

Pineapple juice

Seltzer

7-Up

Sour mix

Tomato juice

Tonic water

Water

GARNISHES AND THEIR FRIENDS

Cherries (maraschino, of course)

Cinnamon sticks


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bartending 101
5

Lemons

Limes

Nutmeg

Olives

Pickled pearl onions

Oranges

The Friends: picks, straws, and swizzle sticks

BOOSTER INGREDIENTS

Celery salt

Ice (The three C's: cubes, cracked, crushed) Salt
Sugar (Don't forget saucers for salt and sugar for frosting the rims of glasses.)
Tabasco

Worcestershire sauce

ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT

Bar glass

Bar spoon

Bottle opener

Champagne bucket

Corkscrew

Cocktail napkins

Covered cocktail shaker

Cutting board

Electric blender

Knife-paring or bar

Lemon/lime squeezer

Martini pitcher

Shot glasses

Measuring cup

Measuring spoons

Mixing pitcher

Muddler

Seltzer bottle

Speed pourers (optional, but handy)

Strainer

Towels






G L O S S A RY












MIXOLOGY

Build: When ingredients are poured into the glass in which the cocktail will be served. The ingredients are floated on top of each other. Sometimes a swizzle stick is used, allowing the ingredients to be mixed.


Float: The final ingredient of a drink is added by pour-ing on top, over the back of a mixing spoon.

Puree: A smooth mixture usually obtained by blend-ing and then passing through the sieve.

Muddle: When ingredients are crushed with a pestle in a muddler in order to extract the most flavor from fruit or mint garnishes.

Shake: Firmly grabbing cocktail shaker and aggres-sively shaking it about a dozen times to fully mix the ingredients. Shaken drinks will be cloudier but more thoroughly mixed and colder.

G l o s s a r y	7

Stir: Pour ingredients into a shaker or mixing glass full of ice and stir with a long twist-stemmed bar-spoon at least six times in 360 degree complete rotations. Strain the drink into a cocktail glass and leave the "used" ice in the mixing glass.

INGREDIENTS

Absinthe: Now illegal in the United States, a redis-tilled alcohol with an anise taste that contains wormwood; absinthe substitutes will suffice in place of the real deal. (See Pastis.)

Aquavit: A Scandinavian caraway-infused spirit.

Adovokaat: An eggnog liqueur popular in Holland.

Amaretto: An almond-flavored liqueur made from apricot pits.

Anisette: A licorice-flavored liqueur made from anise seeds.

Apple brandy: An apple liqueur, also known as Cal-vados or applejack.

Apricot liqueur: A cordial made from apricot pits.

Banana liqueur: A banana liqueur also known as cr\E8me de banana.

Benedictine: A soft herbal liqueur that has been pro-duced commercially since the 1860s by the Bene-dictine monks in France.

Bitters: Angostura bitters-A brand of bitter aromatic tonic used to flavor aperitifs and longer drinks. It was invented around 1825, in Venezuela, by a French doctor to fight illnesses among Bolivar's troops.

Orange bitters: A bitter liquor made from the dried peel of unripe, sour, or bitter oranges, steeped in gin or alcohol.

Peychaud bitters: The brand name of a bitters pro-duced in the southern United States.

Blackberry liqueur: A cordial made from blackber-ries.


Bourbon: A brown liqueur made from at least 51 per-cent corn mash with wheat or rye grains and aged for at least two years in white oak casts.

Brandy: A liquor distilled from wine or fermented fruit. Introduced to Northern Europe by Dutch Brandy products traders in the sixteenth century, the name brandy comes from the Dutch word brandewijn, meaning "burnt wine."

Burgundy: The unblended wines (both white and red, but mainly red) of Burgundy, France. Used in punch or in heated winter drinks.

Campari: A bright red type of orange bitters named after its Italian producer.

Chambord: A French liqueur made from small black raspberries.

Chambraise: A French liqueur made from wild strawberries.

Chartreuse (green or yellow): Green Chartreuse is the only green liqueur in the world with a com-pletely natural color. It also comes in yellow. Only three men in the world, brothers of the Char-treuse order cloistered monks in France, know the names of the 130 plants and how to blend, distill, and age them to produce this liqueur.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

G l o s s a r y	9

Coffee liqueur: A coffee-flavored liqueur. The most popular is Mexican-produced Kahl\FAa.

Cointreau: An orange-flavored liqueur made from the skins of curacao oranges. The generic term is Curacao. If redistilled clear, it is triple sec.

Cognac: A fine brandy from the Cognac region of western France. All cognac is brandy but not all brandy is cognac. It is rated the best brandy in the world, smooth with a heady scent.

Cranberry liqueur: Cranberry-flavored cordial.

Cr\E8me de cacao: A chocolate-flavored liqueur that comes in light and dark varieties.

Cr\E8me de cassis: A black currant-flavored liqueur that is notable in the Kir Royale.

Cream of coconut: A coconut syrup used in tropical drinks especially Pi\F1a Coladas.

Cr\E8me de menthe: A mint-flavored liqueur that comes in white or green varieties.

Cr\E8me de noyaux: An almond-flavored liqueur also known as cr\E8me de almond.

Cr\E8me de violette: A violet-flavored liqueur made with the oil of violets and vanilla.

Curacao: A delicate orange-flavored liqueur that comes in orange and blue.
Drambuie: A honeyed and herbal liqueur with a scotch malt whiskey base made on the Isle of Skye in Scotland.

Dubonnet: A vermouth from the south of France that comes in sweet (red) or less-sweet (blonde).

Fernet Branca: A bitters made of herbs, with a strong medicinal flavor that is produced in France and Italy.


Fino sherry: A very dry type of sherry.

Framboise: A raspberry-flavored liqueur that is often replaced with the more common Cham-bord.


Frangelico: A hazelnut-flavored liqueur produced in Italy.


Gin: An alcoholic drink distilled from malted grain and flavored with juniper berries. Invented by a Dutch chemist in the seventeenth century as a remedy, it was brought to England and developed there as a favorite liquor for the working class.

Dutch Genever gin: A type of gin of very superior quality mainly produced in the Netherlands. Its production is very similar to that of malt whisky, with juniper and flavoring added to the final product.


Gordon's gin: A famous brand of gin made in Eng-land.

Galliano: A golden Italian liqueur with an anise, licorice, and vanilla flavor.

Grand Marnier: An orange-flavored French liqueur with a brandy base.

Grappa: The name of an Italian brandy made from the stalks of grapes.

Grenadine: A pomegranate-flavored syrup with pomegranate used as flavoring and sauce.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

G l o s s a r y	11

Irish cream liqueur: A liqueur made with Irish whiskey blended with fresh cream, spirits, and a little chocolate. The most popular is Bailey's Irish Cream.


Kirsch: A white brandy distilled from cherries and usually aged in a paraffin lined cask to prevent it from taking on the color of the wood. Also known as cherry schnapps.

Licor 43: A sweet, bright yellow citrus and vanilla-fla-vored Spanish liqueur made from a combination of forty-three ingredients, including citrus and fruit juices, herbs, spices, and vanilla.

Lillet: A sweet French aperitif wine containing qui-nine and spices in two varieties: sweet (red) and less-sweet (blonde).

Madeira: A specific Portuguese sweet fortified wine.

Malibu: A coconut rum liqueur.

Mandarine Napoleon: A Belgian liqueur made with rare mandarines whose skins are soaked in a Cognac base.

Maraschino: A cherry-flavored clear liqueur.

Marsala: A fortified Sicilian wine (dry or sweet).

Ojen: An anise-flavored Spanish liqueur popular in New Orleans.

Orange flower water: A non-alcoholic diluted orange flower extract in water used as a mixer.

Orgeat: A non-alcoholic syrup made with almonds, orange flower water, and sometimes barley water used as a mixer.

Ouzo: An anise-flavored Greek aperitif spirit made from pressed grapes, herbs, and berries including aniseed, licorice, mint, wintergreen, fennel, and hazelnut.


Parfait Amour: A light purple curacao flavored with rose petals, vanilla, and almonds and made in France.


Pastis: An anise-flavored absinthe substitute that does not include wormwood, not to be confused with anisette. Brands include Absente, Herbsaint, Pernod, and Ricard.

Pisco: A Peruvian or Chilean unaged brandy.

Punsch: A rum-based liqueur with a spicy sweet flavor.

Rose's lime juice: A famous brand name for concen-trated lime juice.

Rum: A liquor made from fermented and distilled molasses. Light rums are usually produced in Puerto Rico, Barbados, and Cuba and do not age for very long. Dark rums come mostly from Jamaica, Martinique, and Haiti and can mature from three to twelve years. The color of rum is due to the aging process.

Sabre: An orange liqueur with a hint of chocolate produced in Israel.

Sake: Japanese wines made from rice, spring or mountain water, yeast, and a fungus known as Koji mold.
Sambuca: A popular Italian licorice-flavored liqueur with an infusion of elderberry. Sambuca is similar to anisette but with a higher alcohol content. Black sambuca is similar but opaque black in color.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

G l o s s a r y	13

Sangria: A beverage originating from Spain made with red wine, sugar, and fruits, and garnished with fresh fruits and berries.

Scotch: A term used to designate whisky made in Scotland.

Schnapps: Another name for spirit, usually implying quite a strong alcohol content.

Sloe gin: A berry-plum liqueur made from sloe berries steeped in gin.

Sour Mix: A mixture of lemon juice and sugar syrup.

Also called sweet and sour mix or bar mix.

Southern Comfort: A blend of bourbon, orange, and peach liqueur.

Strega: A delicate, mild, and colorless herbal Italian liqueur.

Tequila: A spirit that is only produced in two regions of Mexico and that is made with a minimum of 51 percent distilled blue agave sap.

Tia Maria: A coffee-flavored, rum-based Jamaican liqueur.

Tonic: A tall drink made with ice, spirits, and tonic water.


Triple sec: An orange-flavored clear liqueur similar to Cointreau. Known in nineteenth century as "white curacao."

Vermouth: French or French-style dry fortified wine and herb aperitif. The two most common types are: sweet red and Italian, and dry white and French.

Vodka: A clear alcoholic spirit made from grain that originated in Russia.

Whiskey: Blended whiskey-Whiskey produced from a combination of whiskeys and/or neutral spirits containing at least 20 percent straight whiskey.

Canadian whiskey: A whiskey mainly made of rye, usually lighter-bodied than American whiskeys. It usually matures in oak casks for five years, but can be bottled at two years.

Irish whiskey: A whiskey made from malted cereals, barley, water, and yeast. It is passed through the still three times (creating a high alcohol level), blended, and aged minimum five years in used Sherry casks.


Jack Daniels: A sour mash whiskey made in Ten-nessee.


Jim Beam Bourbon whiskey: The name of a sour mash bourbon made in Kentucky.

Rye whiskey: A whiskey made from a mash that con-tains a minimum of 51 percent rye, and is aged in new oak barrels.

Tennessee whiskey: A smoky sweet type of whisky that is produced like Bourbon, but is mellowed before being stocked in barrels. It is considered by law as a separate category of whiskey.

Yukon Jack: A Canadian-whiskey-based liqueur with citrus and herb flavors.

TYPES OF DRINKS

Aperitif: An alcoholic drink taken before a meal or any of several wines and bitters.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

G l o s s a r y	15

Collins: A tall drink made typically with gin or vodka, sour mix, and club soda.

Cooler: A drink made with ginger ale, club soda, and a fresh spiral or twist of citrus fruit rind, served in a collins or highball glass.

Cordial: Sweetened spirits. The same as liqueurs.

Fix: A sour drink that usually includes pineapple juice and crushed ice.

Fizz: Very similar to a Collins but made with sour mix, sugar, and club soda; often includes an egg.

Flip: A chilled, creamy drink made of eggs, sugar, and a wine or spirit.

Frappe: A partially frozen, often fruity drink, that is usually a mixture of ingredients served over a mound of crushed ice.

Highball: Any spirit served with ice and club soda in a medium to tall glass (often a highball glass).

Julep: A traditionally Southern spirited drink made with fresh mint muddled with sugar, bourbon, and plenty of crushed ice. It's served in an iced silver or pewter mug.

Lowball: A short drink made of spirits served with ice, water, or soda in a small glass.

Mist: Liquor served over a glass filled with crushed ice, often a way of serving liqueur as an after din-ner drink.


Nightcap: A spirited drink taken at bedtime.

Pousse Caf\E9: A drink made by floating one ingredient on top of another.

Punch: A party-size beverage consisting of fruit, fruit juices, flavorings and sweeteners, soft drinks, and a wine or liquor base.

Rickey: A drink made with a liquor, usually gin, a half lime, and club soda. It is sometimes sweetened, and often served with ice in a rickey glass.

Shooter: A straight shot of whiskey or other kind of spirit taken neat. Also the name for drinks made using various liquors served in a shooter glass without ice.


Sour: A short drink consisting of liquor, lemon/lime juice, and sugar.

Toddy: A sweetened drink of liquor, hot water, and spices.

Virgin: A non-alcoholic drink.

GLASSWARE

Beer mug: A glass with an handle that holds 12 to 16 ounces that is typically used to serve beer, but may be used for frozen margaritas and Bloody Marys.

Brandy snifter: A round balloon on a short stem with a lot of room for swirling that can hold 3, 6, or 12 ounces depending on the size that is used for straight brandy.


Champagne flute: A long slender glass with a stem that replaced the champagne saucer in the 1970s because of its ability to hold effervescent cham-pagne bubbles longer. A similar design is the champagne tulip.


Champagne saucer: The classic round champagne container with either a solid or hollow stem. Leg-end says it takes its shape from Marie Antoinette's breast.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

G l o s s a r y	17

Cocktail: The classic V-shaped glass associated with cocktail culture holds 4 1/2 ounces and is extremely similar to the famous martini glass.

Collins: A tall 12-ounce glass named for an 1880s London waiter that is associated with the family of Collins drinks and is also used for a variety of tall drinks.

Delmonico: A 5-ounce glass used for drinks contain-ing sparkling water like fizzes. Typically known as a breakfast juice glass.

Double rocks: A 12-14 ounce old-fashioned glass used typically for drinks with heavy liquors.

Highball: An 8-12 ounce glass similar to a collins glass used for most standard mixed drinks.

Hurricane: A 22-ounce glass in the shape of a hurri-cane lamp. It was created to serve the classic Hur-ricane at Pat O'Brien's in New Orleans but is now used for other tropical or frozen drinks as well.

Martini: A V-shaped glass that is similar to the cock-tail glass design but only holds 4 ounces.

Old-fashioned: A small squat glass with a thick base also known as a rocks glass or a lowball that is used for 6-ounce drinks "on the rocks" (with ice). It is also used for straight liquor if shot glasses aren't available.


Parfait: A specialty glass anywhere from 4 to 7 ounces that is used for drinks that contain liqueurs, ice cream, and fruit.

Pilsner: A tall glass that holds around 14 ounces and is typically used for beer but is also occasionally used for various mixed drinks.

Pony: A small liqueur glass that traditionally holds 2 ounces.

Pousse caf\E9: A narrow, tall 1-ounce liqueur glass used to layer "floated" drinks with the heaviest liqueur on the bottom and the lowest density liqueur floating on top.


Sherry: A 2-ounce stemmed glass used for sherry but in the nineteenth century it was commonly used as a wine glass.

Shot: A small and compact glass with a standard size of 1 ounce, which is also called a jigger that can be used to measure ingredients, hold one liquor, or serve mixed shooters. A long shot holds 2 ounces.


Sour: A classic 4-ounce small stemmed glass, narrow at the stem and tapering out to a wider lip used for drinks like whiskey sours. These days, sours are served in Delmonico glasses but are more classic in this original glass.

Wine (Red): Commonly called a balloon wine glass, this stemmed glass holds about 12 ounces and is used for red wine cocktails and sangria.

White: An 8-ounce oblong, slightly tapered wine glass used for white wine.

Zombie: A narrow, sleek tall glass, frosted or clear, that is used for the Zombie and other tropical drinks.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

1



BREAKFAST AND BRUNCH COCKTAILS-

The All-Night Party Cr owd's Eye-Openers




eather-clad rock-and-rollers, the sequined Ljet set, even seer-sucker wearing Southern-ers who still fancy plantation lifestyle bask in sleeping late and discovering a cocktail await-

ing them at brunch. For sleepy-eyed morning haters, a nip or two-just so the boss can't smell- in the juice offers the jazzy jolt needed to embrace stark sunlight. Weekend pajama-happy rebels play naughty by downing a fizzy cocktail before noon on a lazy Sunday morning while div-ing into the newspaper. Then consider pool par-ties in the Hamptons or country club bridal brunches where a cocktail is just what the bar-tender ordered. Whether spicy or fizzy, breakfast cocktails jump-start the day with a boisterous bang.

1. BLOODY MARY


Say Bloody Mary three times before bedtime. When you wake up in the morning, be sure to have one.


1 1/2 ounces vodka (or peppered vodka for spice)

3 ounces tomato juice 1/2 ounce lemon juice Dash or two Tabasco sauce

Dash or two Worcestershire sauce

Pinch of celery salt

Pinch of pepper

Dab of horseradish

 Chill a cocktail shaker.

 Add vodka, tomato juice, lemon juice, Tabasco sauce, and Worcestershire sauce.

 Add salt, pepper, and horseradish to taste.

 Pour into a chilled collins glass or beer mug.

 Garnish with a lime slice or a celery stalk. Also preferred as garnishes: pickled green beans, okra pods, and garlic stuffed olives.

(See page 52 for original Bloody Mary mix.)




















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
21

2. PEACH FUZZ


Soft and downy, the perfect serum for getting the dish on your brother's bride.


3 ripened peaches

6 ounces pink lemonade

6 ounces vodka

Ice cubes to fill blender

 Put peaches, pink lemonade, vodka, and ice in a blender.

 Blend until iced is crushed.

 Place in freezer for four hours.

 Scoop into highball glasses.

(Serves 6)


3. VODKA MINT


Caution: An oft-used tool for sweet-faced motherly inter-rogators.


6 ounces frozen limeade

6 ounces vodka

17 mint leaves

 Combine limeade, vodka, and mint leaves with enough ice to fill blender.

 Blend at highest speed until slushy. Pour into

cocktail glasses.

 Top with thin slices of lime and mint leaves. (Serves 4)

4. BLOODY BULL


For the morning after. Solves problems from last night's out-of-control bachelorette party.


10 1/2 ounces consomm\E9

24 ounces tomato juice

3 tablespoons lemon juice

2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

1 teaspoon celery salt

1 teaspoon garlic salt

2 teaspoons salt

9 ounces vodka

 Mix all ingredients in a pitcher.

 Serve in highball glasses with ice. (Serves 6)


5. MILK PUNCH


A truly old-school beverage-served at weddings and brunches through the decades.


8 ounces cold milk

1/2 ounce bourbon

3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add milk, bourbon, and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Pour into a goblet.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
23

6. COFFEE FLIP


Wow. This makes the cobwebs run screaming.


1 ounce cognac

1 ounce tawny port

1 small egg

1 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cognac, port, egg, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled delmonico glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.


7. BRANDIED FLIP


Tastes so good you'll do cartwheels and somersaults until four.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce apricot flavored brandy

1 small egg

1 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandies, egg, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled delmonico glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.

8. MADEIRA MINT FLIP


Another Madeira, my dear-a?


1 1/2 ounces Madeira

1 ounce chocolate mint liqueur

1 small egg

1 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Madeira, liqueur, egg, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled delmonico glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.


9. POLYNESIAN PICK ME UP


No, this does not involve carting a virgin off to the volcano.

Your fate is much more pleasant.


4 ounces pineapple juice

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 teaspoon curry powder 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice 1 tablespoon cream

2 dashes Tabasco sauce

4 ounces crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 10 seconds on high speed.

 Pour into a chilled old-fashioned glass.

 Dust with cayenne pepper.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
25

10. CITRONELLA COOLER


For a guaranteed mosquito-free brunch.


1 ounce citrus vodka

Dash of lime juice

2 ounces chilled lemonade

1 ounce chilled cranberry juice

 Build vodka, lime juice, lemonade, and cranberry juice in a collins glass.

 Top with a squeeze of fresh lime.


11. MAY BLOSSOM FIZZ


As sweetly intoxicating as springtime flowers. Your guests just may frolic around the May Pole.


1 teaspoon grenadine

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 ounce club soda

2 ounces Punsch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grenadine, lemon juice, club soda, and Punsch.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Top with soda.

12. SANGRIA


Perfect setting: pitcher for two, Melrose Avenue, a night of endless possibilities.


1/5 dry red wine

1 ripe peach

6 slices lemon

1/2 ounce cognac

1 ounce triple sec

1 ounce maraschino liqueur

1 tablespoon sugar

1 whole orange

6 ounces chilled club soda

 Pour wine into a glass pitcher.

 Add peeled and sliced peach and lemon slices.

 Add cognac, triple sec, maraschino liqueur, and sugar.

 Stir to dissolve sugar.

 Carefully place the orange in the pitcher. (See below.)

 Let mixture marinate at room temperature for at least 1 hour.

 Add soda and 1 tray of ice cubes to pitcher.

 Stir.

 Pour into wine goblets.

(Serves 6)

(For orange: cut orange peel into one long strip, beginning at stem end and continuing until spiral reaches bottom of fruit. Make sure to expose the fruit while cutting. Leave peel attached to orange bottom to suspend fruit in pitcher.)








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
27

13. MEXICAN WEDDING BREAKFAST COCKTAIL


Goes well with huevos rancheros and a blushing bridal afterglow.


1 1/2 ounces sherry

1 egg

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

Drop of Tabasco sauce or dash of cayenne pepper

 Fill cocktail shaker with sherry, egg, powdered sugar, and Tabasco sauce or cayenne pepper.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


14. PEACH MIMOSA


A sweet twist on the classic brunch favorite.


1 ounce peach schnapps

Orange juice

Champagne

 Pour peach schnapps into a champagne flute.

 Add enough orange juice to fill half of the glass.

 Top with champagne.

15. PEACH BELLINI


A favorite of the most discerning June brides.


1 peeled and pitted peach Champagne

 Puree peach and place in a champagne flute.

 Add champagne.



16. TWIST OF A SCREWDRIVER


Everybody wants a turn.


3 1/2 cups orange juice

4 ounces vodka

2 teaspoons lemon juice

2 teaspoons triple sec

 Combine all ingredients in a pitcher.

 Stir.

 Chill in refrigerator.

 Pour into highball glasses with ice.

 Garnish with orange slices.

(Serves 4)















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
29

17. PERFECT PEACH JULEP


Even more Southern than the mint julep-if that's possible.


1 medium fresh chilled peach

2 ounces bourbon

Crushed ice

Mint sprigs

 Peel, pit, and slice peach.

 Puree the peach in a blender.

 Add sugar and process.

 Stir in bourbon.

 Pour over crushed ice in silver julep cup.

 Garnish with mint springs.


18. BAY BREEZE


A nice compliment to lazy mornings on the Outer Banks.


1 ounce vodka

Splash of pineapple juice

Splash of cranberry juice

 Pour vodka into a highball glass with ice.

 Splash with juices.

19. SEA BREEZE


Drink while watching America's Cup. Wish for a sailboat of your own.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce apricot flavored brandy 1/4 ounce grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice

Club soda

Mint sprigs

 Build gin, brandy, grenadine, and lemon juice in a highball glass.

 Add ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Add mint sprigs.


20. CAPE COD


Conjures up morning memories from Martha's Vineyard.

Even if you've never visited.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce lime juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, juices, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
31

21. BLOODY MARIA


Ay Caramba! Tequila in the morning!


1 1/2 ounces tequila

2 dashes Worcestershire sauce

Sprinkle of salt

Sprinkle of pepper

Sprinkle of celery salt

Tomato juice

 Build tequila and Worcestershire sauce in a double old-fashioned glass.

 Sprinkle salt, pepper, and celery salt.

 Fill with tomato juice and ice.


22. AZALEA COCKTAIL


Sip while swinging on a plantation veranda amidst a col-orful burst of bloom.


3/4 ounce lime juice

3/4 ounce pineapple juice

2 1/4 ounces gin

4 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, gin, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

(This drink can be made frothier by adding 1 1/2 ounces heavy whipping cream. If adding heavy whipping cream, use a goblet as glassware.)

23. RAMOS GIN FIZZ


Fun fact: Whenever legendary Louisiana governor Huey P. Long traveled to New York City, he took his own New Orleans bartender so he could have this drink made right.


1 1/2 ounces gin

2 tablespoons cream

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 egg white

1 tablespoon powdered sugar

3 to 4 drops of orange flower water 1/2 ounce lime juice 1/4 ounce club soda


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cream, lemon juice, egg white, powdered sugar, orange flower water, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a goblet.

 Top with chilled club soda.


24. CLAMDIGGER


Put on your short pants and grab the shovel and pail!


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3 ounces clam juice

3 ounces tomato juice

Dash of Tabasco sauce

Dash of Worcestershire sauce

Salt and pepper to taste

 Fill a highball glass with ice.

 Pour in all ingredients.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
33

25. SUMMER RAIN


As refreshing as a surprise downpour in August.


3 ounces cranberry liqueur

Apple juice

Lime wedge

 Pour cranberry liqueur into a highball glass half-filled with ice.

 Top with apple juice.

 Add a squeeze of lime.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


26. SUNRISE MIMOSA


A reward for getting up earlier than the other guests.


1 tablespoon apricot nectar

1 tablespoon orange juice

2 ounces champagne

 Pour apricot nectar and orange juice into a cham-pagne flute.

 Slowly add champagne.

 Garnish with an orange slice or two raspberries.

27. CHAMPAGNE LEMON GRANITA


Sinfully slushy and utterly satisfying. No way to go wrong with this tangy one.


4 scoops lemon sorbet

2 ounces citrus vodka

2 ounces champagne

 Put lemon sorbet into a blender.

 Blend on low speed, slowly adding vodka.

 Add champagne.

 Pour into chilled highball glasses.

 Garnish with fresh mint.


28. RED ROOSTER


Cock-a-doodle doo! Wake up and face the day.


1 1/4 ounces 151-proof rum 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 6 ounces guava juice Splash of grenadine

Build in a collins glass with ice.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
35

29. RUSSIAN BRUNCH


Try this one with a side of borscht. Or not.


8 ounces vodka

12 ounces orange juice

8 ounces champagne

 Pour vodka and orange juice into a blender with ice.

 Pour into a large pitcher.

 Add champagne.

 Stir.

 Pour into goblets.

(Serves 4)


30. COUNTRY CLUB COOLER


No membership dues required. Drink up! It's an open tab.


1/2 teaspoon grenadine

2 ounces club soda

2 ounces dry vermouth

Ginger ale

 Pour grenadine and club soda into a highball glass.

 Stir.

 Fill glass with cracked ice.

 Add dry vermouth.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with lemon and orange peel spirals.

31. PINEAPPLE COOLER


Tiiiiiiny bubbles...in the wiiiine...


2 ounces pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 2 ounces club soda

2 ounces dry white wine

Ginger ale

 Pour pineapple juice, powdered sugar, and club soda in a highball glass.

 Stir.

 Fill glass with cracked ice.

 Add white wine.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with lemon and orange peel spirals or pineapple chunks.


32. PASSION FRUIT COOLER


Everybody needs a little passion. Passion fruit cooler, that is.


1 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce gin

1 1/2 ounces light rum

3 ounces passion fruit nectar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, gin, rum, and passion fruit nectar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
37

33. BRUNCH PUNCH


If Mike and Carol served this, it would be called Brady Bunch Brunch Punch.


3 quarts chilled tomato juice

1 liter light or dark rum

2 1/2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce

5 ounces lemon or lime juice Salt and pepper to taste

 Combine all ingredients into a large pitcher.

 Stir.

 Pour into a punch bowl with a block of ice.

 Garnish with thinly sliced lemons and limes. (Serves 40)


34. APRICOT FIZZ


A sugary kick-start to chase away lingering drowsiness.


1 ounce lemon juice

3/4 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces apricot flavored brandy Club soda

 Build ingredients in a highball glass.

 Fill with ice.

 Top with club soda.

35. FRAISE FIZZ


Start the morning off right with a confectionery straw-berry and lemon combo.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce fraise liqueur

1/2 ounce fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon sugar Club soda


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, fraise liqueur, lemon juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with ice.

 Top with soda.

 Garnish with a lemon twist and a strawberry.



























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
39


36. GRAND ROYALE FIZZ


Fit for a French king...or those still in their pajamas.


1/2 ounce orange juice

1 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1/2 ounce cream Club soda


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, lime juice, sugar, gin, maraschino liqueur, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with ice and club soda.


37. APRICOT CREAM SPRITZ


A great change of pace for the adventurous brunch crowd.


6 ounces milk

4 ounces apricot nectar

2 tablespoons apricot flavored brandy Sparkling wine

 Fill chilled cocktail shaker with milk, apricot nec-tar, and apricot flavored brandy.

 Stir until smooth.

 Pour into 6 red wine glasses.

 Add equal amounts of wine into each glass. (Serves 6)

38. FROSTY SOUR


Pleasantly cold and invigorating, yet quickly warms your guests.


12-ounce can frozen lemonade concentrate

1 tablespoon frozen orange juice concentrate

6 ounces bourbon

12 ounces crushed ice

 Put lemonade and orange juice concentrate, bourbon, and ice in a blender.

 Blend until liquefied.

 Strain into sour glasses.

 Garnish with orange slices and cherries. (Serves 8)


39. MANGO COOLER


Step 1. Get up. Step 2. Have these for brunch. Step 3. Race each other back to the bedroom. An aphrodisiac delight.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce Cointreau

3 ounces mango nectar

 Build ingredients in a highball glass.

 Fill glass with ice.

 Garnish with a mango slice.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
41

40. OJEN FRAPPE


Lean on Ojen, a sweet anise-flavored liqueur, to get the morning going.


1 ounce Ojen

1/3 ounce sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Ojen and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Pour into a highball glass.


41. OJEN COCKTAIL


A popular choice for New Orleans carnival revelers who need a pick-me-up to keep catching the beads.


2 1/2 ounces Ojen

2 dashes Peychaud bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Ojen and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

42. ABSINTHE FRAPPE


Some say absinthe is the devil's tool. Lord, don't let it be so.


1/3 ounce sugar syrup

1 1/2 ounces Pernod

 Pour sugar syrup and Pernod into a chilled high-ball glass with crushed ice.

 Stir vigorously until frost appears on sides of glass.



43. AMBASSADOR'S MORNING LIFT


Even more effective than the embassy's elevator.


32 ounces prepared dairy eggnog

6 ounces cognac

3 ounces Jamaican rum

3 ounces cr\E8me de cacao

 Pour all ingredients into a punch bowl.

 Stir.

 Dust each serving with nutmeg. (Serves 10-12)














 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
43

44. MORNING CALL COCKTAIL


Sip gently while reliving-or forgetting-the previous night's antics.


1 ounce pastis

3/4 ounce fresh lemon juice 3/4 ounce maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pastis, lemon juice, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


45. PERNOD CLASSIQUE


The absinthe breakfast of champions.


1 ounce Pernod

5 ounces water

2 ice cubes

 Pour the Pernod in a tall glass.

 Add the water and ice cubes.

 Stir.

46. ICED DANISH MARY


An alternative to the classic Bloody Mary. Guests will surely want to know the secret ingredient.


1 1/2 ounces aquavit

Bloody Mary mix (store-bought or freshly mixed; see below.)

 Pour aquavit into a double old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add Bloody Mary mix.


47. BLOODY MARY MIX


You can buy something similar in a can, but why not be a domestic diva and make it from scratch?


2 46-ounce cans tomato juice or V-8 juice*

1 teaspoon coarsely-ground fresh black pepper

1 teaspoon celery salt

4 ounces lemon juice

1 5-ounce bottle Worcestershire sauce Tabasco sauce to taste (for heat) Salt to taste

 Mix all ingredients thoroughly in a pitcher.

 Refrigerate.

* If you like it hot, use spicy V-8.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
45

48. MADRAS


The quintessential preppy potable. Biff and Muffy can't get enough of these.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

4 ounces cranberry juice

1 ounce orange juice

 Pour vodka and juices into a highball glass with ice.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


49. BREAKFAST COCKTAIL


Sneak in a flask of this and even IHOP is bearable.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce grenadine

1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, grenadine, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

50. BREAKFAST EGGNOG


Most people don't drink eggnog other than at Christmas.

But they should. An eye-opener for any day of winter.


 egg

 ounces brandy

1/2 ounce orange curacao

3 ounces milk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add egg, brandy, curacao, and milk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tumbler or goblet.

 Dust with nutmeg.


51. GOOD MORNING FIZZ


Prepares you to face even the most annoyingly perky Susie Sunshines.


1 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce anisette

1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, sugar, gin, anisette, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with ice and soda.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
47

52. ROSE IN JUNE FIZZ


The bride may choose a colorful bouquet of fresh-cut flow-ers. But what she really wants is one of these.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce framboise liqueur

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

1 ounce fresh lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, framboise liqueur, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with ice and soda.


53. SHERRY FLIP


A drink that is perfect for winter brunches in mountain cabins when five feet of snow covers the ground. Blazing fire, optional.


1 egg

1 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces sherry

1/2 ounce cream (optional)

1/4 ounce light cr\E8me de cacao (optional)

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add egg, sugar, sherry and optional ingredients, if desired.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

54. BIRD OF PARADISE FIZZ


This bird of paradise will send you flying.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce blackberry brandy 1/2 ounce sugar syrup 1 egg white

4 ounces club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, lemon juice, blackberry brandy, sugar syrup, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into highball glass.

 Fill with club soda and ice.



55. SPARKLING STRAWBERRY MIMOSA


Don't dare serve these without a heaping helping of French toast topped with whipped honey butter.


2 ounces orange juice

2 ounces strawberries

1/2 ounce strawberry syrup 4 ounces champagne

 Blend orange juice, strawberries, and strawberry syrup in a blender until smooth.

 Pour into a cocktail glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with a strawberry and an orange slice.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
49

56. BREAKFAST MARTINI


The high-roller's breakfast drink of choice before he heads back to the table.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce lemon juice

3/4 ounce Cointreau

1 teaspoon light marmalade

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, lemon juice, Cointreau, and light mar-malade.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


57. CHAMPAGNE BLUES


I got the champagne blues...I got nothin' left to lose...I need some more booze.


1/5 blue curacao

8 ounces lemon juice

4/5 dry champagne

Peel of two lemons

 Chill all ingredients.

 Pour curacao and lemon juice into a punch bowl (with no ice).

 Stir.

 Add champagne.

 Stir gently.

 Float lemon peels in the bowl.

(Serves 25)

58. CHAMPAGNE PUNCH WITH KIRSCH


For wedding parties that strive for just a hint above ordinary.


4 fifths iced brut champagne

5 ounces iced Kirsch liqueur

5 ounces cream sherry

4 ounces iced lemon juice

16 ounces iced orange juice

 Pour all ingredients into a chilled champagne bowl.

 Stir.

(Serves 25)


59. CHAMPAGNE DU MARCO


Perfect for the decadent second marriage.


1 ounce vanilla ice cream

2 dashes maraschino liqueur

4 dashes orange curacao

2 dashes cognac

Champagne

 Pour ingredients into chilled deep-saucer cham-pagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with fruits in season.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
51

60. CHAMPAGNE FLIP


The mother-of-the-bride sips this while the bride is getting dressed. The mother of the groom downs two.


1 egg yolk

1/2 teaspoon sugar

3 ounces champagne

1/4 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add egg yolk, sugar, and champagne.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Float brandy on top.


61. SANGRIA ESPECIALE


When normal sangria just won't do.


2/5 red wine

1/5 champagne

4 ounces gin

4 ounces cognac

Sugar to taste

Juice of 2 oranges

Juice of 2 lemons

 Pour ingredients into a punch bowl.

 Stir.

 Add ice.

 Garnish with orange and lemon slices. (Serves 12-15)

62. WHITE GRAPE, TANGERINE, AND SPARKLING WINE PUNCH


Guests expecting the same old champagne punch? No way.

Zig and keep them guessing.


48 ounces unsweetened white grape juice

6 ounces frozen tangerine juice concentrate, thawed

8 ounces club soda

3 ounces brandy

2 ounces lemon juice

1/5 sweet sparkling wine

Thin slices of tangerine

 Pour ingredients into a punch bowl over a block of ice.

 Stir.

 Cover punch bowl and refrigerate until cold.

 Add sparkling wine prior to serving.

 Float tangerine slices.

(Serves 15-20)






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
53

63. CHAMPAGNE SHERBET PUNCH


The punch that has launched a thousand nuptials.


24 ounces chilled pineapple juice

2 ounces lemon juice

1 quart pineapple sherbet

1/5 chilled champagne

 Pour juices into a punch bowl.

 Add sherbet just prior to serving.

 Add champagne.

 Stir.

(Serves 20)

64. CHAMPAGNE PUNCH


Welcome Baby New Year with this bubbly brew.


Juice of 12 lemons

Powdered sugar

8 ounces maraschino liqueur

8 ounces triple sec

16 ounces brandy

2/5 chilled champagne

16 ounces club soda

16 ounces strong tea, optional

 Add enough powdered sugar to sweeten lemon juice in a small bowl.

 Pour mixture in punch bowl over ice.

 Stir.

 Add maraschino liqueur, triple sec, brandy, cham-pagne, club soda, and strong tea, if desired.

 Stir.

 Decorate with seasonal fruits.

(Serves 20-25)






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
55

65. BACCIO PUNCH


This happy-go-lucky concoction will make the gods bow to you.


16 ounces champagne

16 ounces grapefruit juice

16 ounces dry gin

4 ounces anisette

Sugar to taste

16 ounces mineral water

 Pour ingredients into a punch bowl.

 Stir well.

 Surround bowl with ice cubes.

 Decorate with fruit.

 Serve in goblets.

 Garnish with several grapes. (Serves 8)


66. HOT GOLD


Now we know what kept the 49ers going during the Gold Rush.


6 ounces warmed orange juice

3 ounces amaretto

 Pour orange juice into a large mug.

 Add amaretto.

 Stir with a cinnamon stick.

67. COFFEE COOLER


This one is not on the Starbucks menu. But it can be on yours.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 ounce cream

1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 teaspoon sugar

4 ounces cold black coffee

1 small scoop coffee ice cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cream, coffee liqueur, sugar, coffee, and coffee ice cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.


68. BULLDOG HIGHBALL


Arf! No need to save these for when you're putting on the dog.


1 1/4 ounces orange juice

2 ounces gin

Ginger ale

 Build orange juice and gin in a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
57

69. GINGER FIZZ


You've got to think that the Gilligan's Island starlet was craving one of these after her first week on the island.


1 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces gin

Ginger ale

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, sugar, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.


70. MORNING FIZZ


For the rock babe who needs just a little morning glory help from the bottle.


2 ounces blended whiskey 1/2 egg white

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

1/2 teaspoon Pernod

Chilled club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, egg white, lemon juice, sugar, and Pernod.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tall glass.

 Add splash of soda

 Fill glass with ice.

 Stir.

71. ROBERT E. LEE COOLER


Generally speaking, one should never surrender one's hold on this drink. Feel free to rise again and mix another.


1/2 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces club soda

3/4 ounce lime juice

1/4 ounce pastis

1 1/2 ounces gin

Ginger ale

 Dissolve sugar in club soda in a collins glass.

 Add ice.

 Build lime juice, pastis, and gin.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with lemon and orange spirals.


72. ORANGE OASIS


No mirage here, thirsty traveler. Come on in, but leave the camel outside.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce cherry liqueur

4 ounces orange juice

Ginger ale

 Build gin, cherry liqueur, and orange juice in a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with an orange slice.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
59

73. STRAWBERRY SPARKLE


A sprinkle of pink cheer for the most carefree of occasions.


1 cup sliced fresh strawberries

2 ounces frozen strawberry daiquiri fruit juice con-centrate, thawed

6 ounces chilled champagne

4 ounces chilled lemon-flavored sparkling water

 Put fresh strawberries into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour strawberry puree into a glass pitcher.

 Add juice concentrate.

 Stir well.

 Cover and refrigerate.

 Prior to serving, stir in champagne and sparkling water.

 Pour into chilled champagne flutes.

 Garnish with fresh strawberries, if desired.

74. STRAWBERRY-CRANBERRY FROST


This is how Jack Frost lures you in so he can nip at your nose.


2 ounces vodka

4 ounces sliced frozen strawberries, in syrup, partially thawed

4 ounces cranberry juice cocktail

3 ounces ice

 Pour vodka, frozen strawberries, cranberry juice, and ice in a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a large goblet.

 Garnish with a whole strawberry and a mint sprig.


75. AFFAIR


Definitely to remember.


2 ounces strawberry schnapps

2 ounces cranberry juice

2 ounces orange juice

Club soda (optional)

 Pour schnapps, cranberry juice, and orange juice in a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Top with club soda, if desired.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
61

76. FROZEN MINT JULEP


Sultry summer days call for one of these. Make that two.


2 ounces bourbon

1 ounce lemon juice

1 ounce sugar syrup

6 mint leaves

6 ounces crushed ice

 Muddle bourbon, lemon juice, sugar syrup, and mint leaves in a glass.

 Pour mixture and ice into a blender.

 Blend at high speed for 15 or 20 seconds.

 Pour into a chilled highball glass.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.


77. LAKE BREEZE


While the kids are gathering wood for the campfire, sneak a few of these.


4 ounces cranberry juice

2 ounces pineapple juice

1 teaspoon coconut liqueur Lemon-lime soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, liqueur, and soda.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with soda.

78. FANCY FIX


The much-needed dose for those who like it posh.


Juice of 1/2 lemon or lime

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 teaspoon water

2 1/2 ounces champagne

 Squeeze juice of lemon or lime into a collins glass.

 Add sugar and water.

 Stir.

 Fill glass with shaved ice.

 Add champagne.

 Stir well.

 Garnish with a slice of lemon and a straw.


79. PIMM'S CUP


London Lucys love this classic British upper class libation. Perfect for a day at Wimbledon, Ascot, or the Henley Royal Regatta.


2 parts lemonade or ginger beer (Bartender's choice)

1 part Pimms No.1

Slice of vodka-soaked orange; cucumber; lemon; apple; a strawberry

 Pour lemonade into a highball glass with ice. (Use a pitcher if making more than one drink.)

 Add Pimm's Cup No. 1.

 Drop in vodka soaked fruit.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
63

80. PISCO SOUR


A Chilean favorite that always tastes better in Santiago.

But works fine in Santa Fe.


1 1/2 ounces pisco brandy

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

1/2 egg white

Dash of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pisco brandy, lemon juice, sugar, egg white, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


81. MANGO BATIDA


A South American cooler that refreshes the weariest globetrotter.


1 ounce orange juice

2 1/4 ounces mango juice

1 1/2 ounces cachaca

 Pour juices and cachaca into a cocktail shaker.

 Shake.

 Pour into highball glass with crushed ice.

 Stir.

82. BLUE FIX


The absolute antidote for the funks. Kiss those blues good-bye.


Juice of 1/2 lemon or lime

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 teaspoon water

2 1/2 ounces blue curacao

 Squeeze juice of lemon or lime into a collins glass.

 Add sugar and water.

 Stir.

 Fill glass with shaved ice.

 Add blue curacao.

 Stir well.

 Garnish with a slice of lemon and a straw.


83. HAPPILY EVER AFTER


The wedding party essential for the toast that guests will remember forever after.


1 ounce peach schnapps

1 ounce cranberry juice

1 ounce ginger ale

 Pour peach schnapps, cranberry juice, and ginger ale into old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Stir.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
65

84. ALOHA BUBBLY


Fun Fact: Aloha means love, luck, and happiness. Say Aloha Nui to those you really love. That means lots of aloha.


2 ounces pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 2 ounces club soda

2 ounces dry white wine

Club soda

 Pour the pineapple juice, powdered sugar, and club soda in a collins glass.

 Stir.

 Fill with crushed ice.

 Add white wine.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with an orange or lemon peel spiral.

85. HOT SPRINGS COCKTAIL


Hot Springs, Arkansas. Home to thermal springs, gangster lore, and plenty of gambling. Oh, and Bill Clinton lived here once. No word on whether he inhaled these.


1 1/2 ounces white wine

1 tablespoon pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur Dash of orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add white wine, pineapple juice, maraschino liqueur, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


86. CREAMY DRIVER


Go, speed racer, go. This one's waiting for you in the win-ner's circle.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 egg yolk

4 ounces orange juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, egg yolk, orange juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
67

87. BUNNY MOTHER


Multiplying rabbits? Now we know what they're drinking.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce Cointreau

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, juices, sugar, grenadine, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with crushed ice.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.


88. NECTARINE COOLER


Surely this nectarine was served on Mount Olympus to create a buzz at dawn.


2 ounces vodka

3 ounces orange juice

1 teaspoon sugar

Several pieces peeled ripe nectarine Lemon-lime soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, orange juice, sugar, and nectarine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with lemon-lime soda.

 Garnish with nectarine slice.

89. DUKE


A drink equally at home in the palace or in your personal fiefdom.


1 egg

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add egg, triple sec, juices, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a delmonico glass.

 Fill with champagne.


90. GRAVEL GERTIE


Ridden hard, hung up wet. Need we say more about our old friend Gertie? We like her. A lot.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce tomato juice

1 ounce clam juice

Dash of Tabasco sauce

 Build vodka, juices, and Tabasco sauce into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Stir.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Breakfast and Brunch Cocktails
69

91. MAD BULL


Early mornings have you seeing red? Charge after this one, Toro.


1 1/2 ounces aquavit

3/4 ounce lime juice

2 ounces tomato juice

1 ounce beef bouillon

 Build vodka, juices, and beef bouillon into a highball with ice.

 Sprinkle with celery salt.


92. FRENCH WENCH


There once was a wench from Par-ee. Who climbed on a horse next to me. She said with a grin as I tickled her chin, if you offer me drinks, I say "Oui."


2 ounces red Dubonnet

Ginger ale

 Pour Dubonnet in a highball glass with ice.

 Add ginger ale.

 Garnish with lime squeeze.

93. MONDAY MORNING


This little elixir takes the sting out of the first day of the work week.


1 1/2 ounces Fernet Branca

1 1/2 ounces pineapple juice

Juice of 1 lime

Juice of 1 orange

Dash of absinthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Fernet Branca, juices, and absinthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

2



LOUNGE LIZARDS' CLASSIC COCKTAILS-

Making Sinatra Pr oud






ipsters in sharkskin suits. Crooners eye-Hing bombshells in tight satin evening dresses. A bygone era of nights in smoky clubs with cocktails that packed a punch. You

don't have to roll the dice in Vegas, baby, to down drinks that would make the worst singer sound like Sinatra. Classic concoctions offer everyone the chance to unleash the swank and sass of their inner Rat Packer. Make any party a swinging affair. Plug in the Hi-Fi mood tunes and sip the stressful cares away in a cocktail of cool. There's a reason these definitive drinks have stood the test of time. Indulge.

94. GREYHOUND


Go Greyhound. Leave the driving to someone else.


1 1/4 ounces vodka

Grapefruit juice

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Fill with grapefruit juice.


95. GODFATHER


An offer no self-respecting swinger can refuse.


1 1/2 ounces scotch

3/4 ounce amaretto

 Fill old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add scotch and amaretto.






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
73

96. TOM COLLINS


This drink is so good they named a glass after it.


2 to 2 1/2 ounces gin

1 to 2 teaspoons sugar 1/2 to 1 ounce lemon juice Iced club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, sugar, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass half-filled with ice.

 Add soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lemon slice and/or orange slice and/or cherry. Serve with a straw.


97. JOHN COLLINS


Tom's low-profile cousin.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces blended whiskey Club Soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, powdered sugar, and whiskey.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Add several cubes of ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lemon slice and/or orange slice and/or cherry. Serve with a straw.

98. VODKA COLLINS


The tipsy aunt Tom and John don't talk about.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces vodka

Club Soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, powdered sugar, and vodka.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Add several cubes of ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lemon slice and/or orange slice and/or cherry. Serve with a straw.




























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
75

99. MINT JULEP


Quintessentially Southern. Consumed by many a Scarlett awaiting her Rhett.


12 mint leaves on stem

6 mint leaves on stem

1 teaspoon sugar

2 teaspoons water

2 1/2 ounces 86- or 100-proof bourbon

 Tear the 12 mint leaves partially while leaving them on the stem.

 Place them in a silver julep mug or 12-ounce glass with sugar and water.

 Muddle or stir until sugar is completely dissolved.

 Fill glass with cracked ice.

 Add bourbon.

 Stir until ice is partially dissolved.

 Add more ice to rim.

 Stir.

 Tear the remainder of the mint leaves to release aroma and insert into ice with leaves on top.


100. WHITE RUSSIAN


The perfect nightcap to sip in an icy, abandoned dacha.


1 ounce coffee liqueur

2 ounces vodka

Milk or cream

 Fill an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur and vodka.

2. Fill with milk or cream.

101. SIDECAR


Needless to say, this one is for passengers only.


Juice of 1/4 lemon

1 ounce triple sec

1 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, triple sec, and brandy.

 Strain into cocktail glass.


102. MANHATTAN


Classic drink for a classic city.


1/4 ounce sweet vermouth

1 1/2 ounces blended whiskey

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth and whisky.

 Stir.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

 Serve with a cherry.

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
77

103. HARVEY WALLBANGER


Harvey is actually a pretty quiet guy-unless you forget to bring his drink. Don't test him.


1 ounce vodka

4 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce Galliano

 Fill collins glass with ice.

 Add vodka and orange juice.

 Float Galliano on top.


104. GIBSON


Fun Fact: This drink was named in honor of Charles Gib-son, the artist who created the famed "Gibson Girls" images in the early 1900s.


2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce Rose's lime juice (or 1/2 ounce fresh lime juice for substitution)

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with skewered cocktail onions.

105. PINK LADY


Preferred cocktail for Rizzo, Frenchy, and all of you cool chick wannabees. It's the one that you want.


1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1 teaspoon sweet cream

1 teaspoon grenadine

1 egg white

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, sweet cream, grenadine, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


106. OLD FASHIONED


A flapper's favorite, this one gained popularity in Prohibition-era speakeasies.


1 sugar cube

Dash of Angostura bitters

1 teaspoon water

2 ounces blended whiskey

 Add sugar cube, bitters, and water in old-fashioned glass and muddle well.

 Add whiskey.

 Stir.

 Add a twist of lemon peel and ice cubes.

 Garnish with orange and lemon slices and a cherry.

 Serve with a swizzle stick.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
79

107. ROB ROY


Named for a red-haired Scottish outlaw, renowned for his daring prison breaks. Lift your glass and toast a true hero of the Highlands.


3/4 ounce sweet vermouth 1 1/2 ounces scotch

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth and scotch.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


108. ABBEY COCKTAIL


Happy hour at the monastery.


1 1/2 ounces gin

Juice of 1/4 orange

Dash orange bitters

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, orange juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.

109. WHISKEY SOUR


The Popeye of drinks. It am what it am.


1 ounce whiskey

2 ounces sour mix

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sour glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.


110. BLACK RUSSIAN


Order one of these and kiss your troubles Do svidaniya.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

 Fill an old-fashioned glass with ice cubes.

 Add vodka and coffee liqueur.




















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
81

111. SAZERAC


Some claim this was truly the first cocktail, made by a West Indian apothecary in New Orleans. New Orleans, birthplace of the cocktail? Go figure.


1/4 teaspoon absinthe

1/2 teaspoon sugar

1/4 teaspoon bitters (Peychaud's, if possible) 2 ounces bourbon

 Swirl absinthe in a chilled old-fashioned glass until coated.

 Add sugar, bitters, and one tablespoon water.

 Stir until sugar dissolves.

 Add large ice cube and bourbon.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.


112. GIMLET


A late nineteenth century concoction, the gimlet later spawned the Kamikaze and the Cosmopolitan. Admire the pedigree.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce Rose's lime juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and lime juice.

 Stir extremely well.

 Strain into sugar-frosted rim chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with lime wedge.

113. GIN AND TONIC


Half price for those wearing seer-sucker.


2 ounces gin

Tonic water

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add gin.

 Fill with tonic water.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lime slice.


114. SCREWDRIVER


Depending on which way you turn this one, you'll either get tight or get loose.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

Orange juice

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Fill with orange juice.

 Stir.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
83

115. CAIPIRINHA


Used to be Brazil's best-kept secret but-luckily for us- the cat is out of the bag.


2 to 3 lime wedges

Dash of sugar

3 ounces Brazilian rum

1/2 ounce sour mix

 Mash lime wedges with sugar in cocktail shaker.

 Add ice, rum, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Pour into highball glass.

 Garnish with lime wedge.


116. BRONX


Raise a glass to the birthplace of Rat Packer Joey Bishop.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth Juice of 1/4 orange

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, and juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

117. RUM SWIZZLE


The most-treasured of all the pirate's booty.


Juice of 1 lime

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces club soda

2 dashes of Angostura bitters

2 ounces rum

 Fill a collins glass with shaved ice.

 Add lime, powdered sugar, and club soda.

 Stir with a swizzle stick.

 Add bitters and rum.

 Fill with club soda.

 Serve with swizzle stick.


118. BLACK DEVIL


Sometimes, it's all about the olive.


2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a black olive.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
85

119. FRENCH RIVIERA


Take a liquid trip to the Cote d'Azur.


1 ounce rye whiskey

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, brandy, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.


120. GORDON COCKTAIL


Flash Gordon? Jeff Gordon? Commissioner Gordon? Gor-don Sumner? All we know is, this one's our favorite.


2 ounces Gordon's gin

1/2 ounce sherry

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and sherry.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

121. HONEY BEE


A little bit o' honey in every sip.


1/2 ounce honey

2 1/2 ounces dark rum

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add honey, rum, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.


122. LONDON FOG


Elementary, my dear Watson. We order another round.


1 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce anisette

Dash of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de menthe, anisette, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
87

123. INTERNATIONAL
COCKTAIL


Quick! Call the U.N.


1 1/2 ounces cognac

splash of vodka

splash of anisette

1/3 ounce Cointreau

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cognac, vodka, anisette, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


124. ORANGE BLOSSOM


Fragrant, timeless, and truly special. Mix it for your favorite flower.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, triple sec, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

125. STINGER


Ouch! That's going to leave a mark.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


126. NEGRONI


Camillo Negroni of Florence never wavered from this aper-itif. Why should you?


1 ounce gin

1 ounce Campari

1 ounce sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Campari, and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a twist of lemon.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
89

127. ALEXANDER


Patriarch of the proud Alexander family of cocktails.


1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce gin

1 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, gin, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with nutmeg.


128. GIN RICKEY


Rickey, don't lose this recipe. You don't want to drink noth-ing else.


1 1/2 ounces gin

Juice of 1/2 lime

Club soda

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add gin and lime.

 Fill with club soda.

129. LEAVE IT TO ME


...Not the Beaver. Ha. Just giving you the business.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

3 dashes lemon juice

3 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, brandy, vermouth, lemon juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


130. GIN FIZZ


For those who like their gin on the softer side, this drink offers less of a kick.


1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1 tablespoon powdered sugar

3 ounces sour mix

1 ounce club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, powdered sugar, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Pour over ice into collins glass.

 Add club soda.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
91

131. CLOVER CLUB


Where leprechauns grab a quiet nip after a long day at the end of the rainbow.


1 1/2 ounces dry gin

Juice of 1/2 lemon

2 teaspoons grenadine

1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, lemon, grenadine, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


132. MARGUERITE


Marguerite, Marguerite...oh that life could be so sweet!


3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1/4 teaspoon curacao

Dash of orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth, gin, curacao, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an olive.

133. CLASSIC MARGARITA


Legend says Margarita Sames, a Dallas socialite who spent time in Acapulco, created this drink in the late 1940s for her international guests.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 1/2 ounces sour mix Several dashes of lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, triple sec, sour mix, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled salt-rimmed cocktail glass or an old-fashioned glass.


134. MONTE CARLO


For the race-car driving, Baccarat-playing, jet-setting super spy in all of us.


1 1/2 ounces rye whiskey

1/2 ounce Benedictine

3 or 4 dashes of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, Benedictine, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Pour into a chilled cocktail glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
93

135. GOLDEN FIZZ


Plop, plop, fizz, fizz, oh what a relief this drink is.


1 ounce gin

2 ounces sour mix

1 egg yolk

1 ounce club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, sour mix, egg yolk, and club soda.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass filled with ice.

 Top with club soda.


136. CUBA LIBRE


Originated near the end of the Spanish-American War. Translated, it means "free Cuba."


1 1/2 ounces light rum

6 ounces cola

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add rum and cola.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lime wedge.

137. DUBONNET COCKTAIL


This sedate cocktail predates Prohibition, and its base was once the preferred drink of the French Foreign Legion. Vive La France!


1 ounce gin or vodka

1 ounce red Dubonnet

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin or vodka and Dubonnet.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


138. CASINO COCKTAIL


Pace yourself, sport, or you'll end up with snake eyes.


2 ounces gin

1/2 teaspoon lemon juice

1/4 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, lemon juice, maraschino liqueur, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Serve with a cherry.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
95

139. MILLIONAIRE


Enjoy this seven-figure drink even if you are on a blue-collar budget.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

1/2 ounce Pernod

2 or 3 dashes curacao

2 or 3 dashes of grenadine Half of an egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, Pernod, curacao, grenadine, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


140. BERMUDA ROSE


Delicate and dainty, but too many of these and you'll be lost in the Triangle.


1 1/4 ounces dry gin

1/4 ounce apricot liqueur

1/4 ounce grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apricot liqueur, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

141. BISHOP


Say Hail Mary three times, kneel, and pour.


Juice of 1/4 lemon

Juice of 1/4 orange

1 teaspoon of powdered sugar Burgundy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and powdered sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Add two ice cubes.

 Fill with burgundy.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lemon and orange twists.


142. CHINESE COCKTAIL


Ancient Chinese secret. See recipe below.


1 1/2 ounces Jamaican rum

1 tablespoon grenadine

1 tablespoon maraschino liqueur

1 tablespoon triple sec Dash of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, grenadine, maraschino liqueur, triple sec, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
97

143. KENTUCKY COCKTAIL


Why you really had to carry him back to his old Kentucky home...


2 ounces bourbon

1 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


144. MARY PICKFORD


1930's international film superstar, known as "America's Sweetheart" as much for her movie roles as for her romance with heartthrob Douglas Fairbanks. Pop in a DVD of Coquette and drink up!


1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

1 teaspoon grenadine

6 drops maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, pineapple juice, grenadine, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

145. SLOE GIN FIZZ


Sloe...bartenders crossing.


1 ounce sloe gin

2 ounces sour mix

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sloe gin and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled collins glass.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with cherry.


146. RUM COLLINS


Tom, John, and Vodka's long-lost Caribbean cousin.


2 ounces light rum

1 teaspoon sugar syrup

1/2 ounce lime juice

Club soda

 Fill collins glass with ice.

 Add rum, sugar syrup, and lime juice.

 Stir.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with lime slice.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
99

147. MINT COLLINS


Tom, John, Vodka, and Rum's cool older cousin.


2 ounces mint-flavored gin

1 teaspoon powdered sugar Juice of 1/2 lemon Club soda


 Pour gin, powdered sugar, and lemon into collins glass.

 Add several ice cubes.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lemon, orange, and a cherry.


148. ALABAMA


Stars won't be the only things falling on Alabama after a few of these.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce curacao

1/2 ounce lime juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, curacao, lime juice, and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.

149. PHOEBE SNOW


Mysterious and enthralling, this cocktail leaves you want-ing more.


1 1/4 ounces brandy

1 1/4 ounces red Dubonnet 1/4 teaspoon Pernod

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, Dubonnet, and Pernod.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


150. GIN AND LIME


Ideal for sipping alfresco and watching the masses go by.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce fresh lime juice

1/2 ounce orange juice

1 teaspoon Rose's lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lime peel.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
101

151. SALTY DOG


Let me drink your Salty Dog, or I won't be your gal at all...


2 ounces vodka

1/2 unsweetened grapefruit juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, grapefruit juice, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Sprinkle drink with several dashes of salt.


152. SINGAPORE SLING


First concocted at Raffle's Hotel in Singapore, which W. Somerset Maugham once claimed held "all the fables of the exotic East." Sweet and indulgent.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces gin

Club soda

1/2 ounce cherry-flavored brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, powdered sugar, gin, club soda, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Add ice cubes.

 Fill with club soda.

 Float cherry-flavored brandy on top.

 Garnish with fruits in season and serve with a straw.

153. RUSTY NAIL


Before drinking, prepare a tetanus "shot."


3/4 ounce scotch

1/4 ounce Drambuie

 Fill old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Pour scotch.

 Float Drambuie on top.


154. LONG ISLAND ICED TEA


Walk away from this one sober. I dare you.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce tequila

Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 dash cola

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Pour vodka, gin, rum, tequila, and lemon in high-ball glass.

 Add cola for cooler.

 Garnish with a slice of lemon.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
103

155. MOSCOW MULE


Born out of an abundance of ginger beer at Hollywood's Cock 'n' Bull, this one became huge in the 1950s. Kicks like crazy.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

Juice of 1/2 lime

Ginger beer

 Pour vodka and lime juice into a copper mug or a collins glass.

 Add ice cubes.

 Fill with ginger beer.

 Stir.

4. Add a twist of lemon peel.


156. KING COLE


You brought me a drink? Bless your merry old soul.


1 slice orange

1 slice pineapple

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 2 ounces blended whiskey 2 ice cubes

 Muddle orange, pineapple, and powdered sugar in old-fashioned glass.

 Add whiskey and ice cubes.

 Stir well.

157. NEW YORK SOUR


All the bite of the big apple without the hassle.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 tablespoon powdered sugar

2 ounces blended whiskey Claret

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, powdered sugar, and whiskey.

 Shake.

 Strain into white wine glass, leaving half of inch from top.

 Float claret.

 Garnish with half-slice of lemon and a cherry.


158. NEW YORK COCKTAIL


Start spreading the news, I'm having one today.


Juice of 1 lime or 1/2 lemon 1 tablespoon powdered sugar

1 1/2 ounces blended whiskey 1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lime or lemon juice, powdered sugar, whiskey, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Add a twist of lemon peel.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
105

159. DAISY


After a few of these, Miss Daisy needed a driver.


2 ounces tequila

1 ounce lemon juice

2 teaspoons grenadine

Splash of club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, lemon juice, grenadine, and club soda.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Add ice.

 Top with a splash of club soda.


160. AMERICAN BEAUTY


The desperately-needed cocktail of suburban husbands.


3/4 ounce brandy

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce grenadine

3/4 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, dry vermouth, grenadine, orange juice, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

161. BACARDI COCKTAIL


Okay, Smarty, drink some Bacardi. Call up your friends and have a little party.


1 1/2 ounces Bacardi light or gold rum 1/2 ounce lime juice

3 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


162. BETWEEN THE SHEETS


This drink is a pleasure...indulge.


3/4 ounce brandy

3/4 ounce triple sec

3/4 ounce light rum

3/4 ounce sour mix

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, triple sec, rum, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
107

163. CARROLL COCKTAIL


As Lewis Carroll said: Down the rabbit hole. Drink me!


1 1/2 ounces brandy

3/4 ounce sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.


164. FUZZY NAVEL


Less painful than a belly button piercing.


1 1/2 ounces peach schnapps

6 ounces orange juice

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add peach schnapps and orange juice.

 Stir.

165. SCARLETT O'HARA


As God as my witness, I'll never be thirsty again.


1 1/2 ounces Southern Comfort

1 1/2 ounces cranberry juice Juice of 1/2 fresh lime

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a deep-shell champagne saucer.


166. DESERT COOLER


Fun fact: The Desert Cooler was created at Las Vegas' famed Desert Inn, built in 1950. Who owned it at one time? Billionaire Howard Hughes.


1 1/2 ounces Southern Comfort Pineapple-grapefruit juice

 Fill collins glass with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort.

 Fill with juice.

 Garnish with orange slice and cherry.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
109

167. RED LION


Invented in the 1930s by an enterprising Brit, who cleverly took England's national emblem and claimed it for his own.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 1/2 ounces Grand Marnier 3/4 ounce fresh orange juice 3/4 ounce fresh lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Grand Marnier, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Garnish with lemon or orange peel.


168. HARLEM COCKTAIL


Perfect for your own personal night at the Apollo.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, pineapple juice, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with two pineapple chunks on toothpick across glass.

169. PINK GIN


Fashionable in mid-nineteenth century Britain, it spread worldwide with the help of the roving British Navy. A no-nonsense way of getting your daily gin requirement.


2 ounces gin

2 dashes of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a rocks glass with ice.


170. BRONX SILVER


Despite the name, this one is hardly second best.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 3/4 ounce orange juice 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, orange juice, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
111

171. SILVER FIZZ


The right cocktail for a twenty-fifth wedding anniversary.


2 ounces dry gin

1 teaspoon powdered sugar Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 egg white

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, powdered sugar, lemon juice, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.


172. CLASSIC COCKTAIL


Drinks come and go, but the perfect mix of sweet and strong has kept this one popular for decades. A must.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1/4 ounce Cointreau

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1 teaspoon lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

173. SOUTHSIDE


This drink was once popular with the notorious gangsters of Chicago's old Southside. Think speakeasies, big deals, and bathtub gin.


1 1/2 ounces gin

Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 sprigs fresh mint

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, lemon, powdered sugar, and mint.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


174. DAIQUIRI


Fun fact: The daiquiri became popular at early twentieth century Cuban hurricane watch parties.


2 ounces light rum

1 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a champagne saucer.

 Garnish with a lime slice.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
113

175. MARTINEZ


Possible fore-father of the more famous martini. Created in California in the 1800s. A favorite among gold miners.


2 ounces gin

3 ounces dry vermouth

3 or 4 drops maraschino liqueur

3 or 4 drops Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, maraschino liqueur, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.


176. MELBA


What is this mystery ingredient called Swedish punch? A mixture of spices, tea, lemon, sugar, and rum with wine added after a few months of steeping.


1/2 ounce Swedish punch

1/2 ounce rum

Juice of 1/4 lemon

2 dashes absinthe

2 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Swedish punch, rum, lemon juice, absinthe, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

177. DELMONICO


A drink named for the historic New York City restaurant that made it famous.


3/4 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, and brandy.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with lemon twist.































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
115

178. MOJITO


James Bond's preferred drink while capering in Cuba.


2 1/2 ounces light rum

1 tablespoon sugar syrup

8 mint sprigs

Club soda

1 lime

 Put the mint leaves and cooled sugar syrup into a highball glass.

 Using a spoon, muddle mint leaves with sugar syrup for about 20-30 seconds.

 Cut the lime in half and remove the seeds.

 Squeeze the juice from both halves into the glass.

 Add one-half of the lime to the glass.

 Pour in rum.

 Stir.

 Add ice.

 Top with club soda.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.


179. AMERICANO


Another favorite of James Bond; he drinks it in the first Bond book Casino Royale.


1 ounce Campari

1 ounce sweet vermouth

3 ounces club soda

 Fill highball glass with ice

 Add Campari, vermouth, and club soda.

 Stir.

180. DEVIL'S TAIL


Lucifer's liquid lightning.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce vodka

1 1/2 ounces apricot-flavored brandy

1 1/2 teaspoons grenadine

1 tablespoon lime juice

4 ounces crushed ice

 Combine rum, vodka, brandy, grenadine, lime juice, and ice in a blender.

 Blend at low speed.

 Pour into a champagne flute.

 Garnish with a lime peel.


181. MISSISSIPPI MULE


Johnny Reb's favorite drink. Watch out for the kick.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 teaspoon cr\E8me de cassis

1 teaspoon lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de cassis, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
117

182. NAPOLEON


Able was I, ere I saw Elba.


2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce red Dubonnet

1 ounce orange curacao

Dash of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Dubonnet, curacao, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.


183. PETER PAN


For the boy who never grew up but still has legal I.D.


3/4 ounce gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

3/4 ounce orange juice

2 dashes of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, orange juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

184. PRESBYTERIAN
COCKTAIL


A sure way to liven up the church picnic.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

Splash of club soda

Splash of ginger ale

 Build in a highball glass.

 Garnish with a lime twist.


185. THUNDER AND
LIGHTNING


The way this hits you is frightening. You better knock on wood.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1 egg yolk

1 teaspoon sugar

Pinch of cayenne pepper

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, egg yolk, sugar, and cayenne pepper.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
119

186. WILL ROGERS
COCKTAIL


Will Rogers never met a man he didn't like. Drink these, hug the guy on the next bar stool.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce orange juice

1/4 ounce orange curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, orange juice, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


187. CHARLESTON


Don the fringe flapper dress, pearls, and feather boa and start gamboling.


1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce Kirsch

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1/4 ounce orange curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Kirsch, vermouths, maraschino liqueur, and curacao.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

188. ORIENTAL COCKTAIL


Serve these to guests and let them pretend they are trav-eling on the Orient Express.


1 ounce blended whiskey 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce triple sec Juice of 1/2 lime

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, triple sec, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


189. DEMPSEY COCKTAIL


Just try and go fifteen rounds with this heavy weight.


1 ounce gin

1 ounce apple brandy

1/4 ounce pastis

1/4 ounce grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apple brandy, pastis, and grenadine.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Lounge Lizards' Classic Cocktails
121

190. MULE'S HIND LEG


Grab this one when you can. It's got quite a kick but it's worth the ride.


1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce apple brandy

2 teaspoons Benedictine

2 teaspoons apricot brandy

2 teaspoons maple syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apple brandy, Benedictine, apricot brandy, and maple syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.


191. TORPEDO COCKTAIL


Sink another drink; it'll give you time to think.


1 1/2 ounces apple brandy

3/4 ounce brandy

1 to 2 dashes gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandies and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

192. NEW ORLEANS BUCK


What the locals call you if you get naked on Bourbon Street.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce fresh lime juice

1/2 ounce orange juice

2 dashes Angostura bitters Ginger ale

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, juices, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass half-filled with ice.

 Top with ginger ale.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


193. OPERA


The preferred choice after the fat lady sings.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce red Dubonnet

1/2 ounce maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Dubonnet, and maraschino liqueur.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

3



CHAMPAGNE CONCOCTIONS-

Park Avenue Potions






ole Porter said, "I get no kick from cham-Cpagne." But what did he know? Cham-pagne fizzes with dizzying expectations and golden giddiness. Put simply: champagne

makes people happy. Often associated with the beautiful and famous, champagne cocktails can be decadently expensive and devilishly delightful, especially when mixed with lavish liqueurs. So get the party started with a little champagne. Even if it's not a vintage Rothschild, bubbly inevitably transforms the most humdrum Herbert or Harriet into a shooting star.

194. CLASSIC CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL


Dorothy Parker said it best: "Three be the things I shall

attain: envy, content, and sufficient champagne."


1 sugar cube

2 dashes Angostura bitters Chilled champagne

 Place sugar and bitters in a chilled champagne flute.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.



195. CHAMPAGNE CORNUCOPIA


Forget the flute, pass the horn of plenty. Make that plenty of bubbly.


1 ounce cranberry juice

2 scoops rainbow sherbet

1 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce peach schnapps 1 ounce champagne

 Pour cranberry juice into an oversized red wine glass.

 Pour rainbow sherbet, vodka, and peach schnapps into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour mixture over cranberry juice.

 Layer champagne on top.

 Garnish with an orange slice.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
125

196. BELLINI


Champagne and peaches! A dynamite duo, baby.


1 fresh peach

Chilled brut champagne

 Puree peach in a blender.

 Pour into champagne glass.

 Add chilled champagne.


197. BELLINI PUNCH


Come quickly I'm tasting stars-the immortal words of the man himself...Dom Perignon.


Fresh peaches

Iced brut champagne

1 tablespoon lemon juice

Sugar

 In a blender, puree enough peaches to cover the bottom of a punch bowl.

 Pour the peach mixture into a punch bowl.

 Add approximately three times as much cham-pagne to peach mixture.

 Add lemon juice and sugar to taste.

 Stir.

198. IMPERIAL FIZZ


Conquer the empire. One glass at a time.


1 ounce bourbon

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, lemon juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled champagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.


199. FROZEN BIKINI


Icy and tingly in all the right places.


2 ounces vodka

1 ounce peach schnapps

3 ounces peach nectar

2 ounces orange juice Splash of fresh lemon juice 1 ounce chilled champagne 4 ounces crushed ice

1. Pour vodka, peach schnapps, peach nectar, juices, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.

 Top with champagne.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
127

200. CHAMBORD ROYALE SPRITZER


Be a part of the court even if you don't own a crown.


1 1/2 ounces Chambord

Chilled champagne

Club soda

 Pour Chambord into a wine glass.

 Add splash of champagne.

 Fill with club soda.


201. CHAMPAGNE CUP


My cup runneth over. Give me a bigger one.


4 teaspoons powdered sugar

6 ounces club soda

1 ounce triple sec

2 ounces brandy

16 ounces chilled champagne

 Fill a pitcher with ice.

 Add powdered sugar, club soda, triple sec, and brandy.

 Add champagne.

 Stir.

 Decorate with fruits in season and cucumber rind on side of pitcher.

 Top with mint.

 Serve in red wine glasses.

(Serves 6)

202. MIMOSA


This classic brunch drink is perfect for anytime of day; enjoy it at breakfast, lunch, or dinner.


3 ounces chilled champagne

3 ounces chilled orange juice

 Pour champagne and orange juice into cham-pagne flute.


203. CARIBBEAN CHAMPAGNE


Isaac can't make these fast enough on the Pacific Princess.


1/2 teaspoon light rum

1/2 teaspoon banana liqueur Dash of orange bitters

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

1 banana slice

 Pour rum, banana liqueur, and bitters into a chilled champagne glass.

 Add champagne.

 Stir gently.

 Float banana slice on top.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
129

204. CHAMPAGNE FRAISE


Remember the first time someone dropped a strawberry in your champagne? Delicious.


1/2 teaspoon strawberry liqueur 1/2 teaspoon Kirsch

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

1 large strawberry

 Pour strawberry liqueur and Kirsch into a chilled champagne glass.

 Swirl the glass, coating with strawberry liqueur and Kirsch.

 Top with champagne.

 Float strawberry on top.


205. TINTORETTO


A delightful and unexpected "pair" of flavors.


1 pear

Chilled champagne

Dash of pear brandy

 Puree pear in blender.

 Pour 1/2 ounce pear puree into a champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Add pear brandy.

206. VALENCIA


A bubbly citrus bonanza.


2 ounces apricot brandy

1 ounce orange juice

2 to 3 dashes orange bitters Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apricot brandy, orange juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a goblet.

 Top with champagne.


207. SPARKLING WINE
POLONAISE


A teaser that you can't skirt.


1 teaspoon blackberry liqueur

1 teaspoon blackberry brandy 1/2 teaspoon cognac

3 ounces chilled dry sparkling wine Sugar

 Moisten champagne glass with blackberry liqueur.

 Sugar frost rim.

 Add blackberry brandy, cognac, and sparkling wine.

 Gently stir.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
131

208. SPARKLING WINE JULEP


For the Frenchman at the Derby who shuns bourbon.


1 mint sprig

1 tablespoon sugar syrup

1 1/2 ounces brandy

3 ounces chilled dry sparkling wine

 Pour sugar syrup and mint sprig into champagne glass.

 Crush mint in sugar syrup.

 Fill glass with crushed ice.

 Add brandy.

 Fill with sparkling wine.

 Gently stir.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.

209. CHAMPAGNE MANHATTAN


Step One: Don top hat and tails. Step two: Hit the town. Step three: Leave an empty bottle of champagne at every stop.


1 ounce Canadian whiskey 1/4 ounce sweet vermouth Dash of Angostura bitters

3 ounces chilled brut champagne

1 brandied cherry

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Float brandied cherry on top.


210. CHAMPAGNE NORMANDE


Lord Maynard Keynes said, "My only regret is that I did not drink more champagne." Don't be like him.


1 teaspoon Calvados

1/2 teaspoon sugar

Dash of Angostura bitters

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

 Pour Calvados, sugar, and bitters into chilled champagne glass.

 Stir.

 Top with champagne.

 Stir gently.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
133

211. CHAMPAGNE NOYAUX


Don't hold back. Go nuts.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 1 teaspoon lime juice 1 large toasted almond

4 ounces chilled brut champagne Lime slice

 Pour cr\E8me de noyaux and lime juice into a chilled champagne glass.

 Add the almond.

 Top with champagne.

5. Float a lime slice on top.


212. SAVOY SPRINGTIME


I'm stomping at the Savoy with a glass of champagne in my hand. Life couldn't be better.


1/4 ounce gin

1/4 ounce Cointreau

1/4 ounce fresh orange juice Chilled champagne

 Pour gin, Cointreau, and orange juice into a champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Stir gently.

213. KING'S PEG


A favorite of the Versailles crowd way back when.


2 1/2 ounces cognac

Chilled champagne

 Fill wine glass with ice cubes.

 Add cognac.

 Top with champagne.


214. MOSCOW MIMOSA


What all the well-heeled Muscovites will be drinking this season.


3 ounces chilled champagne

3 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce vodka

 Pour champagne, orange juice, and vodka into wine glass.

 Stir gently.


















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
135

215. ROYAL SCREW


A drink fit for a king, a queen, and a castle full of concubines.


2 ounces cognac

2 ounces orange juice

Chilled champagne

 Pour cognac into a champagne glass.

 Add orange juice.

 Stir gently.

 Top with champagne.


216. ROYAL PEACH FREEZE


Peaches and champagne never tasted so majestic.


1 1/2 ounces champagne

2 ounces peach schnapps

2 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce Rose's lime juice 3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour champagne, peach schnapps, juices, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.

217. SPARKLING GALLIANO


"Champagne, if you are seeking the truth, is better than a lie detector." So said Graham Greene; try this and see if you agree.


1/2 ounce Galliano

1/2 teaspoon lemon juice

4 ounces chilled brut champagne Cucumber peel

 Pour Galliano and lemon juice into a chilled champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with a cucumber peel.



218. CHAMPAGNE OLD-FASHIONED


A trio of classic perennials that never goes out of style.


1/2 ounce Grand Marnier

Dash of orange bitters

Chilled brut champagne

 Pour Grand Marnier and bitters into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
137

219. CHARTREUSE CHAMPAGNE


Lime green bubbly for our favorite Irish holiday.


1/2 teaspoon green Chartreuse 1/2 teaspoon cognac

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

 Pour green Chartreuse, cognac, and champagne into a chilled champagne glass.

 Stir gently.

 Garnish with twisted lemon peel.


220. ORANGE CHAMPAGNE


Knock, knock. Who's there? Orange. Orange who? Orange you glad you ordered another glass of this?


Spiraled orange peel

2 teaspoons curacao

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

 Drop the spiraled orange peel into chilled cham-pagne glass.

 Add curacao and champagne.

 Stir gently.

221. CHERRY CHAMPAGNE


My cherie amour. This tastes great, so pour me some more.


1/2 ounce iced cherry liqueur

4 ounces chilled brut champagne 1/2 pitted cherry

 Pour cherry liqueur into a chilled champagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Float cherry on top.


222. MELBA CHAMPAGNE


A delicate dessert that delights from head to toe.


1/2 ounce raspberry brandy

4 ounces chilled brut champagne

1 fresh raspberry

Raspberry sherbet

 Pour raspberry brandy into a chilled champagne glass.

 Add champagne and fresh raspberry.

 Use a melon baller to scoop a single ball of sherbet.

 Float sherbet on top.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
139

223. GULF STREAM


A drink that goes straight to your head. You might need a co-pilot for this one.


1 ounce blue curacao

3 ounces champagne

1/2 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce brandy

6 ounces lemonade

1 ounce lime juice

3 ounces crushed ice

Sugar

 Pour curacao, champagne, light rum, brandy, lemonade, lime juice, and ice into a blender.

 Pour into a sugar-rimmed parfait glass.

 Garnish with a whole strawberry.


224. ARISE MY LOVE


And bring me the bottle of fizzy.


1 teaspoon cr\E8me de menthe Chilled champagne

 Pour cr\E8me de menthe into a champagne flute.

 Top with champagne.

225. STOCKHOLM 75


Fun fact: In 1901, Stockholm hosted the awarding of the first Nobel prizes.


3/4 ounce citrus vodka

3/4 ounce sugar syrup

3/4 ounce lemon juice

5 ounces chilled champagne Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, sugar syrup, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed oversized cocktail glass.

 Top with champagne.


226. NIJINSKI BLINI


Lord Byron said: "A woman should never be eating or drinking, unless it be lobster salad and champagne." Sign me up!


1 ounce vodka

2 ounces pureed peaches 1/2 ounce lemon juice Splash of peach schnapps Splash of chilled champagne

 Pour vodka, peach puree, lemon juice, peach schnapps, and champagne into champagne flute.

 Stir gently.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
141

227. SCOTCH ROYALE


Hey there, Macbeth: I know that champagne gives you a kick, but let's keep the kilt on next time.


1 sugar cube

1 1/2 ounces scotch

Dash of Angostura bitters

Chilled champagne

 Place sugar cube in a champagne flute.

 Add scotch and bitters.

 Fill with champagne.


228. TYPHOON


Typhoon season is usually a cause for alarm except when this libation blows in.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce anisette

1 ounce lime juice

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, anisette, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Top with champagne.

229. DIAMOND FIZZ


Diamonds are a girl's best friend, especially when they're paired with bubbly.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces gin

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, powdered sugar, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Stir.


230. FRENCH 75


Fun fact: Named in honor of a World War I French field gun. Indulge and make love, not war.


Juice of 1 lemon

2 teaspoons powdered sugar

2 ounces gin

Chilled champagne

 Pour lemon juice, powdered sugar, and gin into a collins glass.

 Stir.

 Add ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lemon or an orange slice and a cherry.

 Serve with straws.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
143

231. LUXURY COCKTAIL


Champagne wishes, caviar dreams...buy me a yacht and hear me scream.


3 ounces brandy

2 dashes orange bitters

3 ounces chilled champagne

 Fill a cocktail shaker with brandy, champagne, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Pour into a champagne flute.


232. AMERICANA


President Dwight D. Eisenhower on America: "Some peo-ple wanted champagne and caviar when they should have had beer and hot dogs." You know whose side we're on.


1/4 ounce Tennessee whiskey 1/2 teaspoon sugar

1 to 2 dashes Angostura bitters Chilled champagne Peach slice


 Pour whiskey, sugar, and bitters into a collins glass.

 Stir until sugar dissolves.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add peach slice.

233. LONDON SPECIAL


Taking the posh down a peg or two, Clement Attlee once said, "The House of Lords is like a glass of champagne that has stood for five days." Don't keep this drink waiting; bot-toms up!


Orange peel

1 sugar cube

2 dashes of Angostura bitters Chilled champagne

 Drop orange peel into champagne flute.

 Add sugar cube and bitters.

 Fill with champagne.

 Stir.


234. BLACK VELVET


An Irish favorite: one part pub, one part castle.


One part Guinness (preferably on draft)

One part champagne

 Combine equal amounts of Guinness and cham-pagne in a chilled collins glass.

 Stir.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
145

235. CHICAGO


Sure to warm you up on the windiest of days.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

Dash of curacao

Dash of Angostura bitters

Chilled brut champagne

Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, curacao, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed goblet or wine glass.

 Fill with champagne.


236. CONCORDE


The Captain has turned on the "Drinking" sign. Please feel free to move about the cabin.


2 ounces cognac

2 ounces chilled pineapple juice Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cognac and pineapple juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a champagne glass with cracked ice.

 Fill with champagne.

237. DEATH IN THE AFTERNOON


Parlez-vous francais? The French refer to a climax as "le petit mort" or "the little death."


1 1/2 ounces Pernod

Chilled champagne

 Pour Pernod into a chilled champagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.


238. EVE


Drink deeply from the Tree of Knowledge. Fig leaf optional.


1/2 teaspoon Pernod

1 tablespoon cognac

2 teaspoons sugar

2 teaspoons curacao Chilled pink sparkling wine

 Pour Pernod into a large wine glass.

 Swirl to coat sides of glass with Pernod.

 Add cognac.

 In a bowl, combine sugar and curacao until sugar dissolves.

 Add mixture to wine glass.

 Stir.

 Add ice cubes.

 Fill with sparkling wine.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
147

239. FRENCH LIFT


A drink popularized by Pierre Wonka. Fizzy lifting French drink, indeed.


3 ounces chilled dry sparkling wine 1/2 ounce grenadine

2 ounces Perrier water

3 or 4 fresh blueberries

 Pour sparkling wine into a champagne glass.

 Add grenadine.

 Fill with Perrier water.

 Float blueberries on top.


240. FROBISHER


Named for a famous adventurer. Have a couple of these and find out where they'll take you.


2 ounces gin

3 dashes Angostura bitters Chilled champagne

 Pour gin and bitters into highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.

241. PRINCE OF WALES


Strong enough for a king, but made for a prince.


1 ounce Madeira

1 ounce brandy

3 or 4 drops curacao

2 dashes Angostura bitters Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Madeira, brandy, curacao, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into champagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


242. AIRMAIL


Always delivers, right on time.


1 ounce white rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1/2 ounce honey syrup

3 ounces champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, and honey syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
149

243. CHAMPAGNE BUCK


A few glasses of this concoction and you'll want to dance in the snow "buck" naked.


1/2 ounce gin

1/4 ounce cherry brandy

1/4 ounce orange juice

Chilled champagne

Orange peel

 Build gin, cherry brandy, and orange juice into a highball glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add orange peel.



244. BARBOTAGE OF CHAMPAGNE


"When her guests were awash with champagne and with gin, she was recklessly sober, as sharp as a pin."

-William Plomer


Dash of Angostura bitters

1/2 teaspoon sugar

Dash of lemon juice

Chilled champagne

Orange peel

 Build bitters, sugar, and lemon juice in a collins glass.

 Fill the glass half-full with crushed ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add orange peel.

245. CHAMPAGNE COBBLER


A snow cone for the posh kids.


1/4 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce orange curacao

Champagne

 Fill a double old-fashioned glass two-thirds full with shaved ice.

 Add lemon juice and curacao.

 Stir.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


246. CHAMPAGNE COOLER


Drink this while enjoying your balcony view of the city scape on a steamy summer night.


1/2 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce Cointreau

Champagne

Mint sprig

 Pour brandy and Cointreau into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add mint sprig.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
151

247. LAST THOUGHT
COCKTAIL


Ensures that the night's final ruminations are warm and fuzzy. Need us to tuck you in?


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce champagne

 Fill a cocktail shaker with brandy and champagne.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.



248. CHAMPAGNE NUT COCKTAIL


Sometimes you feel like a nut. Sometimes you feel like a rich nut.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

Champagne

1 almond

 Layer cr\E8me de noyaux and cr\E8me de cacao in a cocktail glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add almond.

249. CHAMPAGNE SIDECAR


Careful with that crystal flute-dangerous curves ahead!


1/4 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce brandy

1/4 ounce Cointreau

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, brandy, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Fill with champagne.


250. CHAMPAGNE SOUR


Not as bitter as the name suggests. But what champagne drink is?


1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

Chilled champagne

 Pour lemon juice and sugar in a sour glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with a lemon slice or a cherry.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
153

251. CUCUMBER CHAMPAGNE


Sure to get you pickled.


1 ounce Benedictine

1/2 ounce lemon juice

Champagne

 Pour Benedictine and lemon juice in a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with lemon peel.



252. SOYER AU CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL


"How about a nightcap on the company. My company." -James Bond, The Spy Who Loved Me


1 tablespoon vanilla ice cream 1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1/4 ounce orange curacao 1/4 ounce brandy Chilled champagne


 Put vanilla ice cream in a chilled champagne glass.

 Add maraschino liqueur, curacao, and brandy.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.

253. WALSH CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL


Mrs. Walsh never touches champagne. Unless she's thirsty.


1 teaspoon sugar

1 mint sprig

1 lemon twist

Champagne

 Build sugar, mint sprig, and lemon twist in a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Float a cherry on top.


254. CHAMPAGNE COMFORT


Silver screen icon Bette Davis nailed it when she said: "There comes a time in every woman's life when the only thing that helps is a glass of champagne."


Splash of Southern Comfort

2 dashes Angostura bitters

Champagne

Peach slice

 Pour Southern Comfort and bitters in a champagne glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Add a peach slice.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
155

255. CHAMPAGNE ISLAND


Where fantasies really do come true. The plane! The plane!


Splash of orange curacao 2 dashes Angostura bitters Chilled champagne

 Pour curacao and bitters into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with a twist of lemon.



256. CHAMPAGNE GREENBAUM


Bartender's gonna set you up with the Spirit in the Sky.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce melon liqueur

Dash of Rose's lime juice

Chilled champagne

 Layer vodka, melon liqueur, lime juice, and champagne in a champagne flute.

257. CHAMPAGNE NAPOLEON


The General once said, "I drink champagne when I win, to celebrate...and I drink champagne when I lose, to console myself."


3/4 ounce Mandarine Napoleon Splash of orange juice Chilled champagne

 Pour Mandarine Napoleon into a champagne flute.

 Add orange juice.

 Fill with champagne.


258. VIRTUAL REALITY


Sometimes, even better than the real thing.


1/3 ounce Calvados

1 ounce gin

3/4 ounce grenadine

3/4 ounce lemon juice

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Calvados, gin, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with champagne.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
157

259. PICK ME UP


Off the floor, that is.


1 ounce cognac

2/3 ounce orange juice

1/3 ounce grenadine

Chilled champagne

 Pour cognac, orange juice, and grenadine into a champagne flute.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.


260. KIR ROYALE


Founding Father Benjamin Franklin's wise words: "He who drinks fast pays slow."


6 ounces champagne

Splash of cr\E8me de cassis

 Pour champagne into champagne flute.

 Add splash of cr\E8me de cassis.

261. KIR IMPERIAL


Purple, the color of royalty.


3/4 ounce raspberry liqueur Champagne

 Pour raspberry liqueur in champagne flute.

 Fill with champagne.


262. CHAMPS-ELYSEES


Puts extra sparkle in the City of Lights.


2/3 ounce Cointreau

2/3 ounce strawberry liqueur Chilled champagne

 Pour Cointreau and strawberry liqueur into a champagne flute.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with small strawberry.




















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
159

263. CHAMPAGNE SUGARPOP


"Champagne is the only wine that leaves a woman beau-tiful after drinking it." So saith Madame de Pompadour. Don't argue with her.


1 sugar cube

2 dashes Angostura bitters

1 ounce cognac

Chilled champagne

 Place sugar cube in a champagne flute.

 Add bitters and cognac.

 Fill with champagne.


264. RITZ FIZZ


Dressed up like a million-dollar trouper? Accessorize with this!


Dash of amaretto

Dash of blue curacao

Dash of lemon juice

Champagne

 Add the dashes of amaretto, curacao, and lemon juice in a champagne flute.

 Fill with champagne.

265. ROULETTE


Where she stops, nobody knows. Except the bartender.


1 ounce blue curacao

Chilled champagne

 Pour curacao into a champagne flute.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.


266. POMME FIZZ


An apple a day, you say? Just one? Perish the thought!


1/2 ounce vermouth

1/2 ounce apple juice concentrate 2 ounces champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth and apple juice concentrate.

 Shake.

 Strain into a champagne glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with an apple chip.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
161

267. CHAM CHAM


Note the absence of "pagne" and "bord." That's not an acci-dent.


5 ounces champagne

1/2 ounce Chambord

Raspberries

 Pour champagne into a champagne glass.

 Add Chambord to taste.

 Float raspberries on top.


268. SLAMMER ROYALE


Aptly named.


6 ounces tequila

4 ounces champagne

 Pour tequila and champagne into a cocktail shaker.

 Stir.

 Pour into shot glasses.

 Slam glasses on table to create fizz.

(Serves 5)

269. PUSH


Hey barkeep-push another one of these my way.


1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1/2 ounce amaretto

3 ounces pineapple juice

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apricot brandy, amaretto, and pineapple juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Garnish with a lime wheel and cherry.


270. MONTE CARLO


Odds are you'll like this one.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce lemon juice Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de menthe, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
163

271. APPLE STRUDEL


Tell Grandma you're sneaking off to the kitchen for some of this. She'll be none the wiser.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce honey liqueur 1/2 ounce blackberry puree Dash of vanilla syrup 2 ounces apple juice

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, honey liqueur, blackberry puree, vanilla syrup, and apple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Top with champagne.


272. LEMONHEAD


Sweet, fizzy, and tart, like your favorite candy in a glass.


1/2 fresh lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 teaspoon water

2 1/2 ounces champagne

 Squeeze lemon into a chilled cocktail shaker.

 Add sugar and water to lemon.

 Stir.

 Pour into a cocktail glass.

 Fill cocktail glass with shaved ice.

 Add champagne.

 Stir.

273. 90210 ICED TEA


All the rage on Rodeo Drive.


1 ounce sour mix

1 ounce gin

1 ounce white rum

1 ounce tequila

1 ounce Tia Maria

1 ounce vodka

Chilled champagne

 Pour sour mix, gin, white rum, tequila, Tia Maria, and vodka into a zombie glass.

 Fill with champagne.


274. BORDEAUX BITTER


The best of France and Italy, in the palm of your hand.


1 ounce Campari

Champagne

 Pour Campari and champagne into deep-saucer champagne glass.

 Stir.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
165

275. DUBONNET FIZZ


A splendid combination of flavors, sure to liven the gathering.


1 ounce orange juice

2 ounces Dubonnet

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice and Dubonnet.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Fill with champagne.


276. CORPSE REVIVER


Sure to jolt the most reticent party guest back to life.


2 dashes of grenadine

2/3 ounce lemon juice

2/3 ounce orange juice

2/3 ounce brandy

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grenadine, juices, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Top with champagne.

277. FONTANA


Sip on this while basking on a sun-drenched Italian piazza. Or just pretend you are.


1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce Campari

1/2 ounce Cointreau

1/2 ounce Grand Marnier

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, Campari, Cointreau, and Grand Marnier.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with shredded lemon peel.


278. FRENCH 90


"Gentlemen, in the little moment that remains to us between the crisis and the catastrophe, we may as well drink a glass of champagne." -Paul Claudell, French play-wright


2 ounces sour mix

1 ounce brandy

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sour mix and brandy.

 Stir.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
167

279. LE PETIT FIZZ


It's not the size of the fizz that matters, it's what you do with it that counts.


1 ounce blue curacao

1/2 ounce vodka

Champagne

Lime slice

 Pack a margarita glass with crushed ice.

 Pour blue curacao into the center of the glass.

 Add vodka.

 Top with champagne.

 Squeeze lime wedge on top and drop in.


280. SILVER REIGN


Although equally apt to make one dance, this drink should not be confused with the Prince album of a slightly differ-ent name.


1 1/3 ounces bourbon

1 ounce champagne

1 ounce Drambuie

 Pour bourbon, champagne, and Drambuie into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Stir.

281. 78 CAMARO


Much like the automobile: loud and dirty, yet strangely appealing.


3/4 ounce Yukon Jack

3/4 ounce rum

3/4 ounce apricot brandy

1 ounce pineapple juice

Champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Yukon Jack, rum, apricot brandy, and pineap-ple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Top with champagne.


282. ATHEIST'S BEST


Enjoyed by many a lazy non-believer on Sunday mornings.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce cherry juice

3/4 ounce lemon juice

3 ounces extra dry champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Top with champagne.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
169

283. A GOOD NIGHT KISS


If it's done right, it lingers on the lips just a bit.


Drop of Angostura bitters

1 sugar cube

4 ounces champagne

Splash of Campari

 Put one drop of bitters on a sugar cube.

 Drop into a champagne flute.

 Add champagne.

 Splash with Campari.


284. THE CAROLINA


Nothing could be finer than to drink a Carolina in the morning. Or anytime.


2 ounces Strega

2 ounces champagne

 Pour Strega into a chilled wine glass.

 Add champagne.

 Stir gently.

285. AMBROSIA


The drink of toga-wearing gods with expensive tastes.


1 ounce apple jack

1 ounce brandy

Dash of triple sec

Juice of 1 lemon

Chilled champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple jack, brandy, triple sec, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with champagne.

 Stir lightly.


286. FRENCH PIRATE


Cheers to Jean LaFitte, the Gentleman Pirate of New Orleans!


1/2 ounce orange curacao

1 ounce dark rum

Champagne

 Pour curacao into champagne flute.

 Add rum.

 Top with champagne.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Champagne Concoctions
171

287. ORIGINAL SIN


Harder to resist than that first bite of the apple.


3/4 ounce triple sec

1 1/2 ounces brandy

1 1/2 ounces cherry liqueur Splash of sour mix Dash of grenadine

6 ounces champagne

 Fill a hurricane glass with crushed ice.

 Add triple sec, brandy, cherry liqueur, sour mix, and grenadine.

 Stir.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with orange, lemon, and lime slices.

 

4



MARTINI MADNESS-

Bond and Babe Drinks









efore Bradshaw, Carrie Bradshaw, there Bwas Bond, James Bond, asking for his cho-sen drink, shaken not stirred. Smooth and suave, not to mention sexy as sin, James Bond was the quintessential martini drinker; in his first twenty films, the super spy drank eighteen. Bond owned the drink until a sex writer from Manhattan wooed the young and hip masses with fruitful neon twists on the classic. Soon, Sex and the City wannabees were teetering in expen-sive stilettos and ordering designer 'tinis in sleek bars from coast to coast. If ever a cocktail person-ified sex and status, it's the martini in all of its

glorious renditions from past to present.

288. ORIGINAL MARTINI


Simple, classic, elegant. Your dad definitely wants one.

Make it a double.


1 1/2 ounces gin

Dry vermouth to taste

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.


289. VESPER MARTINI


Fear not, noble churchgoer-this is not a mischievous addition to your church potluck, but a libation that pays homage to James Bond's leggy love interest in Casino Royale.


3 ounces gin

1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce Lillet blonde

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vodka, and Lillet blonde.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a slice of lemon peel.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
175

290. VODKA MARTINI


Drink of choice for a certain British secret agent. Order this, and you have a license to swill.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

Dash dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.


291. ALGONQUIN


Best enjoyed while seated at a round table, arguing litera-ture with your crowd's Dorothy Parker.


1 1/2 ounces whiskey

1 ounce dry vermouth to taste

1 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice

 Add whiskey, vermouth, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

2. Strain into a chilled martini glass.

292. BLACK AND WHITE MARTINI


The perfect accompaniment for the man who prefers a martini that matches his tuxedo.


3 ounces vanilla-flavored vodka

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with black and white licorice candies.


293. CABARET MARTINI


Mix them up, pop in the Liza video, practice your Fosse moves. Tuxedo tap pants? A must.


3 ounces gin

1 1/2 ounces red Dubonnet

4 dashes Angostura bitters

4 dashes Pernod

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Dubonnet, bitters, and Pernod.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lime twist.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
177

294. COLONY CLUB MARTINI


Perfect for the hidden British expatriate in all of us.


3 ounces gin

1 teaspoon Pernod

4 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Pernod, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange twist.


295. DEEP SEA MARTINI


Passing this one up would be unfathomable. Enjoy with a viewing of Jaws or, if you're parental, the 500th viewing of Finding Nemo.


3 ounces gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 teaspoon Pernod

Dash orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, Pernod, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

296. DUSTY MARTINI


Ideal for long walks with the son of a preacher man.


2 ounces gin

Dash dry vermouth

Scotch

 Fill cocktail shaker with an ice cube.

 Add gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass rimmed with scotch.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.



297. FARE THEE WELL MARTINI


A nice touch for long, lingering goodbyes with your para-mour. Mix well, and he might have to stay longer.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth Dash Cointreau

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, and Cointreau.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
179

298. FDR'S MARTINI


Fireside Chats are much more pleasant with a pitcher of these nearby. Make this drink your New Deal.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce vermouth

1 teaspoon olive brine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and olive brine.

 Stir.

 Rub a lemon twist around the rim of a chilled martini glass.

 Strain into the glass.

 Garnish with an olive.



299. FIFTY-FIFTY VODKA MARTINI


Even Steven. Dutch. You get the idea.


2 ounces vodka

2 ounces dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.

300. GREAT CAESAR'S MARTINI


Must surely have been the favorite drink of Perry White, Clark Kent's editor at The Daily Planet. Order this one loudly with three exclamation points. (!!!)


3 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and vermouth with cracked ice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an anchovy-stuffed olive.


301. IMPERIAL MARTINI


Drink this and watch a magic crown appear above your head. Really!


3 ounces gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 4 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, maraschino liqueur, and bit-ters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
181

302. HOT AND DIRTY MARTINI


Ladies-when ordering this one, add a low, husky purr to your voice. Shrinks your bar tab instantly.


3 ounces pepper vodka

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon olive brine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, vermouth, and olive brine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive stuffed with pickled jalapeno pepper.


303. LONDON MARTINI


I do say, old bean, let's bend our elbows and toast Mother England! There's a good chap! (Bowler hats sold sepa-rately.)


3 ounces gin

1/2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 4 dashes orange bitters 1/2 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, maraschino liqueur, bitters, and sugar.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.

304. LOW TIDE MARTINI


Cape Cod in a martini glass. Who needs planes, trains, and automobiles?


3 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon clam juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, vermouth, and clam juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive stuffed with smoked clam and a lemon twist.


305. OPAL MARTINI


A liquefied birthstone for October babies. Taste this and you'll wish for another when you blow out the candles.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 ounce fresh orange juice 1/4 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice

 Add gin, triple sec, orange juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
183

306. PALL MALL MARTINI


Toss-off this fact to impress a date: the Pall Mall Martini is named for a London thoroughfare in the St. James district, home to Marlborough House. If your date asks a follow-up question, make a toast and change the subject.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth

1 teaspoon white cr\E8me de menthe Dash orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, cr\E8me de menthe, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


307. DEAN MARTINI


Rat Packers of the World, unite! Raise a toast to swingin' daddy-o's everywhere.


3 ounces vodka or gin (Bartender's choice) Splash red sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka or gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange wheel.

308. SICILIAN MARTINI


Truly an offer he can't refuse. Just don't ask him about the family business.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce dry Marsala

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and Marsala.

 Stir briskly.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Twist lemon over drink and drop into the glass.


309. RUDE COSMOPOLITAN


This one has a surprising bite, as if Jose Cuervo took a wrong turn at Albuquerque and ended up in your glass.


1 1/4 ounces tequila

1/4 ounce Grand Marnier

Juice from whole lime

1 ounce cranberry juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, Grand Marnier, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
185

310. GOLF MARTINI


So, this must explain golfer's fashion choices.


4 ounces gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

4 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.


311. VELVET BUNNY MARTINI


Remember your favorite stuffed animal from childhood while this warms you before bedtime.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

Dash banana liqueur

Dash black sambuca

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, banana liqueur, and sambuca.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with banana slices.

312. PRINCESS MARTINI


She'll feel like royalty when you present Her Highness with this libation. Make it a double and she just might knight you.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

Dash strawberry liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and strawberry liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Squeeze slice of orange over the glass and drop in.


313. NEW ORLEANS MARTINI


Iko, Iko! Shake off the workday voodoo with this taste of the Big Easy.


3 ounces vanilla vodka

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce Pernod

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, vermouth, Pernod, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with mint sprig.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
187

314. LEAP YEAR


This is The Official Drink of February 29th, but we urge you to throw caution to the wind-make 'em on July 5th. Or May 13th.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce Grand Marnier 1/4 teaspoon lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, Grand Marnier, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


315. PALM BEACH MARTINI


A favorite among wealthy Florida socialites.


3 ounces gin

1 teaspoon sweet vermouth

2 ounces grapefruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and grapefruit juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

316. PARK AVENUE MARTINI


When Eva Gabor told Eddie Arnold, "Darling, I love you, but give me Park Avenue," she surely had this one in mind. Mix, sip, and ponder what the commoners are doing today.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouths.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


317. WARSAW


Surely the preferred choice of famous Poles like Lech Walesa and Count Pulaski.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce apple brandy

1 ounce sweet vermouth

1 teaspoon yellow Chartreuse

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apple brandy, vermouth, and Chartreuse.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
189

318. JOURNALIST


Stop the presses! This smooth libation will make even the most reluctant source spill the beans.


2 ounces gin

1 teaspoon dry vermouth

1 teaspoon sweet vermouth

1 teaspoon triple sec

1 teaspoon lime juice

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, triple sec, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


319. ICEBERG


A nice accompaniment to your Titanic viewing parties.

Garnish with Kleenex.


2 ounces gin

Dash white cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with fresh mint.

320. SMOKY MARTINI


They say smoke gets in your eyes, but this goes straight to your head.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon scotch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and scotch.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with lemon twist.


321. THIRD DEGREE MARTINI


For loosening the tongues of uncooperative suspects. Mix, administer, repeat as needed.


3 ounces gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce Pernod

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and Pernod.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
191

322. BLENTON


As James Thurber said, "One martini is all right. Two are too many, and three are not enough."


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


323. BLOODHOUND


Turn the tables on this canine detective-pursue doggedly.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce strawberry liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, and strawberry liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Drop a whole strawberry into glass.

324. FINO MARTINI


As Bob Hope said in The Cat and the Canary: "Let's all drink gin and make wry faces."


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce fino sherry

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and sherry.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with olive or lemon twist.


325. FLYING DUTCHMAN


Legend is that this drink's namesake is a ghostly sea cap-tain, doomed to sail the seas for all eternity. Can't be all bad. At least he's got this tasty concoction to keep him company.


Curacao

2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce dry vermouth

 Pour enough curacao into prechilled cocktail glass to coat sides.

 Twirl glass and coat with curacao.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into glass.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
193

326. MARSALA MARTINI


Marsala-Italy's answer to sherry-makes this martini an adventurous departure from the standard. Bongiorno!


3/4 ounce gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

3/4 ounce dry Marsala

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and Marsala.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Twist lemon above drink and drop in.


327. DUTCH MARTINI


Got a date who hates going Dutch? Change her mind with these.


2 ounces Dutch genever gin 1/2 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Twist lemon above drink and drop in.

328. PERFECT


Once you taste one of these, you'll quickly grasp the name.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouths.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with olive or lemon.


329. PAISLEY MARTINI


A blatant, and highly effective, attempt to attract the attention of thirsty hippies everywhere.


2 1/4 ounces gin

1/4 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon scotch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and scotch.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
195

330. RACQUET CLUB MARTINI


"Biff? Muffy? Shall I order us a round? Fabulous..."


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake until outside of shaker is completely frosted.

 Strain into a cold martini glass.


331. MORRO


Be like Little Orphan Annie and order "to."


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce golden rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, rum, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed chilled martini glass.

332. POMPANO


Fun fact: Pompano racetrack in south Florida features nighttime horse racing. Giddyup!


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 ounce grapefruit juice

4 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, grapefruit juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail or old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


333. ST. LO


Named for the patron saint of the vertically challenged.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce Calvados

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Calvados, lemon juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
197

334. PRINCETON


Adventurous Ivy Leaguers will enjoy this concoction. Sis boom bah!


1 1/4 ounces gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


335. RED CLOUD


So named for the pleasant fog that envelops the drinker's brain.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce apricot liqueur

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon grenadine

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apricot liqueur, lemon juice, grenadine, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

336. LAVA LAMP MARTINI


An unusually tasty byproduct of "60s Night" at the coun-try club.


Splash raspberry liqueur

Splash honey

3 ounces vodka

 Mix raspberry liqueur and honey in a shot glass.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini glass.

 Spoon in raspberry liqueur and honey mixture.


337. SECRET MARTINI


Don't tell anyone about this one. Keep the recipe to your-self and indulge in covert actions.


3 ounces gin

1 ounce Lillet Blonde

2 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Lillet Blonde, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
199

338. MONTMARTRE


The ideal locale for consuming this drink? The tallest point in Paris, of course.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce triple sec

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and triple sec.

 Shake.

 Pour into an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.


339. MOULIN ROUGE


Can you make zees drink? Oui! Everybody can-can!


1 1/2 ounces sloe gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 3 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sloe gin, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

340. HELLFIRE CLUB MARTINI


Emma Peel surely downed one of these after escaping the Hellfire Club's sinister clutches.


1 1/2 ounces pepper vodka 1/2 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pepper vodka and dry vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a jalapeno pepper and a dash of cayenne pepper.


341. DIPLOMAT


The martini strong enough to solve the world's problems.

Share liberally.


2 ounces dry vermouth

1 ounce sweet vermouth

2 dashes maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouths and maraschino liqueur.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel twist.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
201

342. TRUFFLE MARTINI


Raise a glass to toast the tireless work of our porcine brethren, who have selflessly sniffed out underground truffle troves for generations.


3 1/2 ounces cognac

Splash lime juice

Splash Grand Marnier

7 paper-thin slices black truffle

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cognac, lime juice, and Grand Marnier and 2 slices of black truffle.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with remaining five slices of black truffle.


343. POMEGRANATE MARTINI


Persephone, heroine of Greek mythology, was banished to Hades for eating an other-worldly pomegranate. Lucky you-she took the fall, you get the drink.


2 ounces fresh squeezed pomegranate juice

2 ounces vodka

1/4 ounce sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pomegranate juice, vodka, and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

344. COWBOY MARTINI


A refreshing respite for cowpunchers both urban and rural. Saddle up!


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

Dash sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a floating mint sprig.


345. COSMOPOLITAN


The drink that made Sex in the City chicks teeter in their Jimmy Choos. Fruity and light, drink a few and get ready to hear all about your friend's Mr. Big.


2 ounces lemon-flavored vodka

1 ounce triple sec

1 ounce cranberry juice

1/2 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, cranberry juice, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lime slice.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
203

346. FLIRTINI


Sure to make you think the bartender is cute enough to deserve a wink or two.


1/2 ounce raspberry vodka 1/2 ounce Cointreau Splash lime juice Splash pineapple juice Splash cranberry juice

 raspberries Brut champagne

 Muddle raspberries in bottom of slightly chilled cocktail glass.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, Cointreau, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Top with champagne.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.

347. WEMBLEY MARTINI


Perhaps the reason soccer hooligans often riot at Wembley is that the bartender has run out of this tasty treat? A promising theory.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon apricot brandy

1 teaspoon Calvados

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, apricot brandy, and Calvados.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.


348. NEWBURY


Like the British town and Boston street of the same name, the Newbury is sweet, posh, and delicious. Perfect for the parched Anglophile.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce sweet vermouth

1/4 teaspoon triple sec

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and triple sec.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
205

349. BLUE MARTINI


The perfect hand candy for the air traveler with a window seat.


3 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce blue curacao

Dash Angostura bitters

 Half-fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, curacao, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.


350. GIRLIE MARTINI


Careful there, mister-order a "couple of girlies" too loudly, and your barmates may eye you with suspicion. Proceed with caution.


Splash dry vermouth

4 ounces vodka

3 ounces chilled champagne Dash maraschino liqueur

 Coat inside of martini glass with dry vermouth.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, champagne, and maraschino liqueur.

 Stir.

 Strain into the martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive and a cherry.

351. SOHO


The decadent way to end a day of shopping and art gallery exploration.


2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce vanilla vodka

1/2 ounce orange curacao

Dash orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodkas, orange curacao, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini glass.

 Garnish with a flamed orange peel.



352. LONG KISS GOODNIGHT MARTINI


Like its namesake, this one is sweet and leaves you want-ing more. Much more.


1/2 ounce vanilla vodka

1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao Shaved white chocolate

 Freeze a martini glass with white chocolate on rim.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice

 Add vodkas and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake lightly.

 Strain into the glass.

 Garnish with a chocolate kiss.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
207

353. ST. TROPEZ


While this drink won't give you that perfect St. Tropez tan, you can hear the ocean if you hold the empty glass over your ear.


2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce maraschino liqueur 3 ounces peach juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with vodka, maraschino liqueur, and peach juice.

 Add ice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


354. BLUE LAGOON


So you weren't lucky enough to be shipwrecked with a young Brooke Shields? Join the club. Drown your sorrows while cursing the name of Christopher Atkins.


2 ounces vodka

1/4 ounce blue curacao

3 ounces pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with vodka, curacao, and pineapple juice.

 Add ice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

355. GIN AND SIN


Want to really ruffle the petticoats of your teetotaling Aunt Gladys? Offer her one of these aptly named combinations, and watch her scurry for the safety of her Prohibition League meeting.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, juices, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


356. SPECIAL SWEET
MARTINI


Make it for the girl in your life. Claim you invented it and named it after her. We won't tell.


Dash of orange bitters

1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bitters, gin, and vermouth.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
209

357. MEDIUM MARTINI


If Starbucks was a bar, this one would be called a "Grande."


1/4 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/3 ounce dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouths and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


358. PINK PUPPY


Roll over and fetch this one whenever possible. If you bring me one, I promise to scratch your tummy.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 1/2 ounces gin

4 1/2 ounces grapefruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, gin, and grapefruit juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.

359. PALME D'OR


This drink shares its name with the big prize from the Cannes Film Festival. Mix one up and pretend to strut down the red carpet.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounces lemon juice

2 teaspoons lime cordial

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, lemon juice, and lime cordial.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with twist of lemon and a cherry.


360. RAZMOPOLITAN


It's the raspberry that makes this drink so sinfully deli-cious. But don't down too many and razz the patrons.


2 1/4 ounces raspberry vodka

1 1/8 ounces triple sec

1 1/2 ounces cranberry juice 3/4 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon caster sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, juices, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Twist lime peel above glass and drop in.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
211

361. SILVER BULLET


If the Lone Ranger ever left one of these behind, Tonto would have questioned the Masked Man's sanity.


1 1/2 ounces gin

Splash scotch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and scotch.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

(This drink may also be stirred and served on the rocks.)




362. MARTINI NOIR


Drink this at the beginning of a beautiful friendship, preferably with a feisty-yet compliant-gun moll.


2 ounces vodka

1 ounce Chambord

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and Chambord.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with lemon twist.

363. CREOLE MARTINI


My great-uncle Boudreaux claims that this drink makes him handsome, funny, and a really great dancer.


2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with jalape\F1o pepper.


364. THE FIGGY


Get jiggy with the figgy.


2 ounces vodka

1/4 ounce fig vodka

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1 ounce half and half

 Pour vodkas, maraschino liqueur, and cream into cocktail shaker.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Let stand for five seconds.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with dark chocolate kiss and a fig slice.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
213

365. SAKETINI


A few of these will have you singing like Aretha Franklin, to the tune of "Respect." "Saketini-saketini-saketini-saketini..."


1 1/2 ounces sake

1 1/2 ounces gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sake and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an olive.



366. MILKY WAY MARTINI FOR TWO


Bob had a problem. He was thirsty, AND he had missed dessert. Milky Way Martini to the rescue!


6 ounces vanilla vodka

1 Milky Way candy bar

1 tablespoon sweet chocolate shavings

 Slice Milky Way candy bar into pieces.

 Place candy bar slices in microwaveable bowl and heat until melted.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Shake.

 Spoon 1 teaspoon melted candy bar in bottom of each chilled cocktail glasses.

 Strain vodka into the glasses.

 Garnish with chocolate shavings.

367. CHOCOLATE ORANGE DROP FOR TWO


Overheard near the ski lodge fireplace, "Baby, this drink is just like you, sweet, but with a kick."


3 ounces orange vodka

1 ounce chocolate vodka

1 ounce Cointreau

1 1/2 ounces white chocolate liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodkas, Cointreau, and white chocolate liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into two chilled martini glasses.

 Garnish with chocolate orange slices.



368. WHITEOUT MARTINI FOR TWO


No mistake here. Make this drink for your favorite secretary.


4 ounces vanilla vodka

1 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces white chocolate liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Shake.

 Add white cr\E8me de cacao and white chocolate liqueur.

 Swirl shaker for one minute.

 Rest shaker for one minute.

 Strain into two frozen martini glasses.

 Dust with coconut flakes.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
215

369. MINT PATTY MARTINI


All this great taste and fresh breath, too? What a country!


3 ounces pepper vodka

2 ounces white cr\E8me de menthe

1 Starlight mint

1 ounce dark chocolate liqueur

1 tablespoon peppermint schnapps

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pepper vodka, cr\E8me de menthe, and Starlight mint.

 Let shaker stand for one minute.

 Shake.

 Add dark chocolate liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into two chilled martini glasses.

 Top each glass with half of the peppermint schnapps.

370. GIMLET LIMETINI


Can't get your date to pucker up? Order a couple of these, and it'll be next stop: Smoochville, Population: 2.


4 ounces key lime vodka 1/2 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 teaspoon bottled water 1 lime


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka.

 Stir.

 Add vermouth and water.

 Squeeze in half of lime.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with lime twist.


371. LEMON DROP MARTINI


Lemon Drop, Lemon Drop, Oh Lemon-Lemon Drop...easy to make and the chicks dig it.


1 1/2 ounces citrus vodka

1 teaspoon sugar

1/4 of a lemon

 Slice 1/4 lemon into wedges.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon wedges.

 Add vodka and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into sugar-rimmed chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
217

372. EURO-COSMO


No, this is not the poor man's Parisian astronaut or that dance-a-teria round the way. But it is a taste sensation.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce Cointreau

1/4 ounce lime juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, Cointreau, lime juice, and cranberry juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


373. MELONTINI


Livens up the traditional gin martini with a welcomed fruity flavor.


2 ounces gin

Dash melon liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and melon liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

374. FRENCHMAN'S FOLLY


Pierre is being too humble-if this libation is a mistake, sacre bleu!


4 ounces gin

3 ounces dry vermouth

1 ounce lemonade

1 ounce water

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, lemonade, and water.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


375. UPTOWN GIN MARTINI


You know those sharp-looking guys at the corner table, who always look like they have it all together? This is what they're drinking.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/8 ounce dry vermouth

1/4 ounce olive juice

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, olive juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
219

376. ROSE PETAL MARTINI


Big Moe behind the bar will not make you one of these.

Don't ask him.


2 ounces vodka

Dash rose water

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and rose water.

 Stir 10 times.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with rose petals.


377. GYPSY


A drink so good, even nomads will stick around.


1 1/2 ounces sweet vermouth

1 1/2 ounces gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth and gin.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with cherry.

378. AFTERBURNER


Ahh...sweet mother alcohol with a healthy dose of Vitamin C. Scurvy, begone!


1 1/2 ounces triple sec

3 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce grapefruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add triple sec, vodka, and grapefruit juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a strawberry slice.


379. BOUNTY MARTINI


Please pardon the reference to a paper towel slogan, but this drink is indeed the "quicker picker upper." Ouch.


1 1/2 ounces red vodka

1 1/2 ounces vanilla vodka

2 1/4 ounces cream of coconut Dash sugar syrup

Six drops orange bitters

 Muddle vodkas, cream of coconut, sugar syrup, and bitters in cocktail shaker.

 Add ice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with fresh strawberries.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
221

380. EGG CUSTARD MARTINI


One word: Flan-tastic!


3 ounces vodka

1 1/2 ounces Warnicks advocaat 3/4 ounce vanilla vodka 3/4 ounce bourbon

1/8 ounce sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, Warnicks advocaat, vanilla vodka, bourbon, and sugar syrup.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.


381. HIGH ROLLER


If you order this in a casino, the pit boss comps you all sorts of free stuff. Really. Give it a whirl.


1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth

1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce triple sec

3/4 ounce apricot brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth, gin, triple sec, and apricot brandy.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.

382. JASMINE


Preferably served in a magic lamp on a flying carpet.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 Campari

3/4 ounce triple sec

Dash sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Campari, triple sec, and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with lemon peel.


383. KNICKERBOCKER


Hard to get much more old school than this one. Good any-where, but especially in a dark, wood-paneled haunt.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/4 teaspoon sweet vermouth 3/4 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and vermouths.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
223

384. MANGOTINI


The libidinous taste of mango combined with the spirit-lifting effects of vodka.


1 1/2 ounces mango vodka 3/4 ounce triple sec Splash mango juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, and mango juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a mango slice.


385. ORANGE COSMO


A flavorful burst that cries for a second round.


2 ounces vodka

1 ounce Grand Marnier

1/4 ounce lime juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, Grand Marnier, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.

386. PRINCE EDWARD MARTINI


First cigars, now a martini. Are there any vices that Prince Edward didn't endorse? My kind of guy.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce Drambuie

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and Drambuie.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.



387. QUEEN ELIZABETH MARTINI


Royally delicious. God Save The Queen!


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

2 teaspoons Benedictine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and Benedictine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Martini Madness
225

388. CHOCOLATE MARTINI


The perfect gateway drink for beginning lushes. It's the candy cigarette of the alcohol world.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao Cocoa powder

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocoa powder-rimmed chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a chocolate kiss-tip up-in the glass.

 

5



AFTER DINNER DREAMS-

Turn Your Lamp Down Low






        andles twinkle in a plush den. The smooth CReverend Al Green plays on the stereo.

       Hey, don't pull out the tequila. No way. That's not the liquor of choice after a romantic meal or on a rainy Sunday night after a most pleasurable weekend. Lay back and relax some more. Think romance. Think seduction. Oh yeah, that's it. Now you're talking. A Brandy Alexander. Delish. A Grasshopper? Creamy green devils sure to make you lose your mind. A Golden Cadillac? Is that what you drive? Silly me, you mean the drink. I'll take one. Then another. If you're lucky.
       
389. BLUE ANGEL


Ever wonder why those Air Force stunt pilots defy death for your viewing pleasure? It's because they get to sip these little Top Guns when they return to the hangar.


1/2 ounce blue curacao

1/2 ounce parfait amour

1/2 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add curacao, parfait amour, brandy, lemon juice, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


390. GOLDEN DREAM


Sip a few of these and slip into a fantastic sleep.


1 ounce Galliano

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 tablespoon orange juice

1 tablespoon light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Galliano, triple sec, orange juice, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
229

391. BANANA SLIP


What would Freud say about this one?


1 1/2 ounces cr\E8me de banana

1 1/2 ounces Irish cream liqueur

 Layer cr\E8me de banana and Irish Cream in a cor-dial glass.


392. CR\C8ME DE CACAO NIGHTCAP


Just what a nightcap should be: sweet, silky, and smooth.

Be sure to brush before turning in.


1/4 cup cream

2 teaspoons sugar

1 tablespoon cr\E8me de cacao

10 ounces milk

4 ounces cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces brandy

3 tablespoons sugar

Powdered cocoa

 Beat cream until whipped.

 Stir in 2 teaspoons sugar and 1 tablespoon cr\E8me de cacao.

 Store in refrigerator.

 Heat milk, 4 ounces cr\E8me de cacao, brandy, and sugar until hot.

 Pour into 4 small goblets.

 Top with whipped cream, sugar, and cr\E8me de cacao mixture.

 Sprinkle cocoa on top.

(Serves 4)

393. CHOCOLATE ORANGE FRAPPE


A sinful liquid bonbon to be indulged in slowly.


3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

3/4 ounce orange juice

1 teaspoon Galliano

 Pour cr\E8me de cacao, orange juice, and Galliano into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.


394. FOXY LADY


A throwback to the days of disco balls, satin hot pants, and glitter eyeshadow. Let's pretend it's 1976 again.


1 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add amaretto, cr\E8me de cacao, and heavy cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cordial glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
231

395. FLYING GRASSHOPPER


Higher octane for high-performing grasshoppers.


3/4 ounce cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 3/4 ounce vodka

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de menthe, cr\E8me de cacao, and vodka.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cordial glass.


396. CAPRI


A magical concoction like the dreamy island that bears its name.


3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de banana 3/4 ounce light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de banana, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cordial glass.

397. SUISSESSE


A popular drink in Switzerland and France. The Swiss and French know what time it is. Suissesse time.


1 1/2 ounces Pernod

1/2 ounce anisette

1/4 ounce cream

1/2 ounce egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Pernod, anisette, cream, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


398. COFFEE GRAND
MARNIER


No better drink than this one to sip while prattling about life's little nuisances.


1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Grand Marnier

1/2 ounce orange juice

 Pour coffee liqueur, Grand Marnier, and orange juice into cocktail shaker.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.

 Garnish with orange slice.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
233

399. MIXED MOCHA FRAPPE


All the taste of coffee with all the discernment of full-bodied liqueurs.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

1/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1/4 ounce triple sec

Sugar

 Pour coffee liqueur, cr\E8me de menthe, cr\E8me de cacao, and triple sec into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Fill sugar-rimmed deep saucer champagne glass with crushed ice.

 Pour mixture over ice.


400. SAMBUCA FRAPPE


Mix two and slip into something silky. Enjoy a night full of secrets.


1 ounce sambuca

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

 Pour sambuca and coffee liqueur into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Fill deep saucer champagne glass with crushed ice.

 Pour mixture over ice.

401. DUTCH VELVET


If the Dutch masters had partaken in this, they might have discovered the beauty of velvet as a canvas.


1/2 ounce chocolate mint liqueur 1/2 ounce banana liqueur 2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add chocolate mint liqueur, banana liqueur, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with shaved chocolate.


402. DUTCH COFFEE


Don't let the evening end without this one.


1 1/2 ounces Vandermint liqueur Hot coffee

 Pour Vandermint liqueur into a coffee mug.

 Add hot coffee.

 Top with whipped cream.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
235

403. VELVET KISS


A kiss is just a kiss unless it's lined with velvet.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

1 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, banana liqueur, pineapple juice, and heavy cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


404. MILLIONAIRE'S COFFEE


Rich, just like the name suggests. A nightcap for high rollers and those who can only dream.


1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce Grand Marnier 1/2 ounce Frangelico Hot coffee


 Pour coffee liqueur, Irish cream liqueur, Grand Marnier, and Frangelico into a deep coffee mug.

 Add hot coffee.

 Top with whipped cream.

405. CADIZ


Fun fact: Cadiz, Spain is thought by many to be the oldest city in Europe.


3/4 ounce sherry

3/4 ounce blackberry liqueur 1/2 ounce triple sec 1/2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sherry, blackberry liqueur, triple sec, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled old-fashioned glass.


406. PEACH MELBA


Dessert in a glass never tasted so good. Take a pass on the cheesecake and indulge in this.


1 ounce peach schnapps

1/2 ounce black raspberry liqueur 3 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add peach schnapps, black raspberry liqueur, and heavy cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with a peach slice.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
237

407. PANAMA COCKTAIL


Tastes best when you're wearing a white suit and a big straw hat.


1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce light cream

1 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, cream, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


408. LOVER'S KISS


Gentlemen: Check your shirt collars for tell-tale traces of this sweet treat. Dead giveaway.


1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce cherry brandy

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add amaretto, cherry brandy, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a parfait glass.

 Top with whipped cream, chocolate shavings, and a cherry.

409. BRANDY ALEXANDER


Drink and dessert, all in one glass. The best of the Alexander family.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, brandy, and heavy cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


410. GARZA'S NIGHTCAP


Tossing and turning? Tiptoe into the kitchen and toss back one of these hot milk treasures.


6 ounces milk

1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

 Heat milk on stove.

 Add sugar and coffee liqueur.

 Pour into a coffee mug.

 Dust with nutmeg.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
239

411. SHERRIED COFFEE


A touch of sherry never hurt anyone.


1 1/4 ounces sherry

1 1/4 ounces coffee liqueur

2 teaspoons cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sherry and coffee liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled old-fashioned glass.

 Float cream on top.


412. COFFEE GRASSHOPPER


How Jiminy Cricket ends his day.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

3/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur, white cr\E8me de menthe, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

413. PINK ALMOND


Don't reach for that pretty bowl of pastel almonds at the next wedding reception. Choose this instead.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 1/2 ounce orgeat

1 ounce blended whiskey

1/2 ounce Kirsch

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de noyaux, orgeat, blended whiskey, Kirsch, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain over ice in a chilled old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with lemon slice.


414. MOCHA MINT


Like that ice cream you loved as a child-plus the added bonus that comes with adulthood.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao Sugar


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur, cr\E8me de menthe, and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Moisten cocktail glass rim with coffee liqueur.

 Dip rim in sugar.

4. Strain mixture into glass.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
241

415. ALL-WHITE FRAPPE


Nighttime blizzards are more fun when sharing one of these under the covers.


1/2 ounce anisette

1/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1 teaspoon lemon juice

 Pour anisette, cr\E8me de menthe, cr\E8me de cacao, and lemon juice into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.


416. COFFEE ALEXANDER


What the Alexander family drinks by moonlight.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, coffee liqueur, and cream.

 Shake.

 Pour into a cocktail glass.

417. ANGEL'S WING


Legend has it that an angel becomes mortal if his wings are cut off. Conversely, if the bartender doesn't cut you off too soon, you'll feel heavenly.


1/3 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/3 ounce brandy

1/3 ounce cream

 Layer cr\E8me de cacao, brandy, and cream in a cordial glass.


418. ANGEL'S TIP


"Psst...listen, pal. If you want my advice, I'd bet on the Big Guy."


3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/4 ounce cream

 Layer cr\E8me de cacao and cream in a cordial glass.

 Top with cherry.


















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
243

419. ANGEL'S KISS


Served by Charlie to his crime-fighting heroines.


1/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1/4 ounce cr\E8me de yvette 1/4 ounce brandy 1/4 ounce cream

 Layer cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de yvette, brandy, and cream in a cordial glass.


420. ANGEL'S DELIGHT


Put the shine back in your halo with this luscious cocktail.


1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce cr\E8me de yvette 1/4 ounce cream

 Layer grenadine, triple sec, cr\E8me de yvette, and cream in a cordial glass.

421. PEPPERMINT TWIST


Let's twist again like we did last winter.


1 1/2 ounces peppermint schnapps 1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao 3 scoops vanilla ice cream

 Pour peppermint schnapps, cr\E8me de cacao, and vanilla ice cream into blender.

 Mix low speed.

 Pour into large parfait glass.

 Garnish with mint sprig and peppermint candy stick.

 Serve with a straw.


422. QUAALUDE


While under its influence, please refrain from driving or operating heavy machinery.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce Frangelico

1 ounce coffee liqueur

Splash milk

 Fill old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add vodka, Frangelico, coffee liqueur, and milk.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
245

423. TOASTED ALMOND


Finally: A signature drink for drunken nut jobs every-where.


1 1/2 ounces coffee liqueur

1 ounce amaretto

1 1/2 ounces cream

 Fill old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur, amaretto, and cream.


424. BANANA BANSHEE


Much less frightening than its name would indicate. Noth-ing spooky here, but you just might scream...with delight.


1 ounce cr\E8me de banana

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de banana, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

425. DIANA


Ideal for bringing out your inner princess, or huntress if you prefer mythology.


1 1/2 ounces white cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce brandy

 Pour cr\E8me de menthe into an old-fashioned glass.

 Add crushed ice.

 Float brandy on top.


426. FRENCH DREAM


Pep\E9 Le Pew's go-to drink. For when he is playing hard to get, no?


1 1/2 ounces Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce raspberry liqueur

2 ounces half and half

4 ounces ice cubes

 Pour Irish cream liqueur, raspberry liqueur, half and half, and ice cubes into a blender.

 Blend at low speed for 30 seconds.

 Pour into a parfait glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
247

427. IRISH COFFEE


No blarney-this is an outstanding end to the evening.


1 1/2 ounces Irish whiskey Hot coffee

 Pour Irish whiskey into coffee mug.

 Add hot coffee.

 Top with whipped cream, if desired.


428. IRISH ANGEL


She had wings of green and flaming red hair when she appeared to Paddy and whispered sweet nothings in his ear.


3/4 ounce Irish whiskey

1/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1 1/2 ounces heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de menthe, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass or in old-fashioned glass with ice.

429. IRISH NIGHTCAP


When in Ireland, do as the Irish do.


4 ounces hot milk

1 1/2 ounces Irish whiskey

1 teaspoon sugar

 Pour hot milk into coffee mug.

 Add whiskey and sugar.

 Stir.


430. BANK HOLIDAY


What the Brits drink on their holidays from work.


1/2 ounce bourbon

1/2 ounce Galliano

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 ounce brandy

1 to 2 ounces sweet cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, Galliano, cr\E8me de cacao, brandy, and sweet cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
249

431. PRINCESS MARY


Before bedtime, don a tiara and sip one of these.


1/3 ounce dry gin

1/3 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/3 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cordial glass.


432.GOLDEN CADILLAC


Boss Lady likes them pink, but you'll like them golden.

Crush velvet seats, indeed.


1 ounce Galliano

1 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Galliano, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

433. RUSSIAN BEAR


For decades, smaller countries cowered in the Russian Bear's shadow. Feel the power of the Motherland in the palm of your hand.


1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


434. COFFEE COOLER


For sultry summer nights that are too good to end.


4 ounces cold coffee

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 ounce cream

1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 teaspoon sugar

1 small scoop coffee ice cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coffee, vodka, cream, coffee liqueur, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tall glass.

 Add coffee ice cream.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
251

435. BANANA RUM FRAPPE


Add beach chair, sand, setting sun on the horizon. Repeat as needed.


1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1/2 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce orange juice

 Pour banana liqueur, rum, and orange juice into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.


436. BANANA APRICOT FRAPPE


Nobody says no to a second one of these, even when it's time to say good night.


3/4 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce apricot-flavored brandy 1/4 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux

 Pour brandies and cr\E8me de noyaux into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.

437. CHARTREUSE COGNAC FRAPPE


A glowing mix of herbal flavors and a strong brandy base.


3/4 ounce yellow Chartreuse 3/4 ounce cognac

 Pour Chartreuse and cognac into cocktail shaker.

 Stir without ice.

 Pour over crushed ice in deep saucer champagne glass.


438. PINK SQUIRREL


Don't miss out on this one-it'll have you hopping from tree to tree.


1 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

3/4 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de noyaux, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled sugar-rimmed cocktail glasses.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
253

439. RUSSIAN COFFEE


Warm enough to ward off even the worst Siberian winter nights.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

3/4 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce cream

1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour coffee liqueur, vodka, cream, and crushed ice into a blender.

 Blend low for 15 seconds.

 Pour into chilled deep saucer champagne glass.


440. DULCET


dul cet [adj] : Sweet to the taste, pleasing to the ear. Never was a truer definition written.


1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce curacao

1/2 ounce anisette

1/2 ounce apricot liqueur

1 teaspoon lemon juice

1/2 brandied apricot

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, curacao, anisette, apricot liqueur, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled old-fashioned glass on ice.

 Drop in brandied apricot half.

441. GRASSHOPPER


In Aesop's fable, the Grasshopper languished while the busy Ant prepared for winter. Little did the Ant know about the Grasshopper's secret hooch stash.


3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de menthe, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled cocktail glass.


442. CREAM PUNCH


This will keep you awake for that late-night argument and then dull the pain.


2 ounces cognac

1/4 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces cream

1/4 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce dark rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cognac, sugar, cream, lemon juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled cocktail glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
255

443. CALM VOYAGE


For the traveler who knows no timetable.


1/2 ounce Galliano

1/2 ounce passion fruit syrup 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1/2 ounce light rum 1/2 egg

1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour Galliano, passion fruit syrup, lemon juice, rum, egg half, and crushed ice into a blender.

 Blend at low speed for 15 seconds.

 Pour into a chilled deep saucer champagne glass.


444. ST. LOUIS COCKTAIL


Fun fact: With its prominent and well-known arch, St. Louis is sometimes known as the "Gateway to the West." Wonder if travelers took this with them?


1/2 peach or apricot

Southern Comfort

 Place peach or apricot into deep saucer champagne glass.

 Add finely cracked ice.

 Fill with Southern Comfort.

 Serve with a spoon.

445. CAPPUCCINO COCKTAIL


Ideal to mix and place on the bedside table, to sip while enjoying a good read.


3/4 ounce coffee flavored brandy 3/4 ounce vodka 1 ounce cream


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, vodka, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled cocktail glass.


446. MOONLIGHT MADNESS


What the "Werewolves of London" drink with their big bowls of beef chow mein.


1/2 ounce Frangelico

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce vodka

Splash of cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Frangelico, cr\E8me de cacao, vodka, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into chilled cocktail glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
257

447. SAVOY HOTEL


Really gets you stomping.


1/3 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 1/3 ounce Benedictine 1/3 ounce brandy

 Layer dark cr\E8me de cacao, Benedictine, and brandy into a pousse caf\E9 glass.


448. KING ALPHONSE


Ahhh...it's good to be the king!


2 ounces coffee liqueur

1 ounce cream

 Pour coffee liqueur into a cordial glass.

 Float cream on top.

-OR-

 Fill an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur.

 Top with cream.

 Stir.

449. KREMLIN COCKTAIL


A favorite of KGB agents after a long day of wiretapping.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.


450. PANDA BEAR


When the zookeeper isn't looking, the pandas love to sneak a few of these.


1 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 5 ounces vanilla ice cream 1/4 ounce chocolate syrup 2 to 3 dashes vanilla extract

 Pour amaretto, cr\E8me de cacao, dark cr\E8me de cacao, vanilla ice cream, chocolate syrup, and vanilla extract into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a chilled goblet.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
259

451. VELVET HAMMER


Smooth but hard-hitting. A sinful delight disguised as an innocent milk shake.


1 tablespoon cr\E8me de cacao

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 tablespoon light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, vodka, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


452. CRICKET


When administered properly, it will make you (and your paramour) rub your legs together. Chirping optional.


1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce cream

Dash of brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de menthe, cream, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

453. GOOD AND PLENTY


Drink some Now, save some for Later. If you can stand it.


3/4 ounce ouzo

3/4 ounce anisette

Pour ouzo and anisette into a brandy snifter.


454. B & B


As comfortable as a good bed & breakfast, with none of the curious breakfast companions.


1/2 ounce Benedictine

1/2 ounce brandy

 Pour Benedictine into a cordial glass.

 Float brandy on top.


455. DIRTY MOTHER


She was filthy, but she told a mean bedtime story.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

 Fill old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add brandy and coffee liqueur.

 Stir.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
261

456. ADRIENNE'S DREAM


As the poet Anne Sexton said, "In a dream you are never eighty."


2 ounces brandy

1/2 ounce peppermint schnapps 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

1 ounce club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, peppermint schnapps, cr\E8me de cacao, lemon juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Add ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with mint sprig.


457. ALMOND JOY


Sometimes you feel like a nut...and sometimes you feel like one of these.


1 ounce cream of coconut

1 ounce amaretto

1 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me of coconut, amaretto, dark cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass filled with ice.

458. AUNT JEMIMA


All the sweetness of syrup without pancakes.


1/2 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce Benedictine

1. Layer ingredients in a pony glass.


459. BIG BLUE SKY


Best consumed while flat on one's back, cloud-gazing.


1/2 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce blue curacao

1/2 ounce cream of coconut 2 ounces pineapple juice 3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour rum, curacao, cream of coconut, pineapple juice, and crushed ice into a blender.

 Blend at low speed for 30 seconds or until smooth.

 Pour into goblet.

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
263

460. SICILIAN KISS


Receiving a kiss from a Sicilian has been a death sentence in many a gangster movie. This smooch is much less deadly.


1 1/2 ounces Southern Comfort 1/2 ounce amaretto

 Fill an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort and amaretto.

 Stir.


461. BLACK LACE


Delicate with a subtle hint of frill.


1/2 of a lemon

2 ounces sambuca

1 ounce cr\E8me de banana

1 ounce peach schnapps

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Squeeze lemon into shaker.

 Add sambuca, cr\E8me de banana, and peach schnapps.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

462. BLACK MONK


Communion never tasted so good.


1 1/4 ounce B&B

Coffee

 Fill a sugar-rimmed coffee mug with B&B and coffee.

 Top with whipped cream.


463. CAF\C9 ALPINE


No need to travel all the way to the ski slopes to enjoy this minty mug-heat one up anytime.


Coffee

1 ounce peppermint schnapps

 Pour coffee into a mug.

 Add peppermint schnapps.

 Top with whipped cream.




















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
265

464. CAF\C9 ROYALE


Coffee fit for a king.


1 sugar cube

Brandy

Coffee

 Soak sugar cube in a spoon with brandy.

 Light the sugar cube aflame.

 When flame dies, drop brandied cube into coffee.


465. HOT NUTTY IRISHMAN


Quite possibly one of the greatest drink names ever. It's also delicious.


3/4 ounce Irish cream liqueur 3/4 ounce Frangelico 3/4 ounce coffee

 Fill coffee mug with Irish cream liqueur, Frangelico, and coffee.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with a cherry.

466. GODMOTHER


Finish this by midnight or turn into a pumpkin.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce amaretto

 Fill an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Pour vodka and amaretto.


467. CARA SPOSA


Fun fact: "Cara sposa" is an aria from Handel's Rinaldo, in which the title character laments the kidnapping of a lost love.


1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 ounce curacao

1/2 ounce cream

1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour coffee liqueur, curacao, cream, and crushed ice into a blender.

 Blend at low speed for 15 to 30 seconds or until smooth.

 Pour into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
267

468. ORANGE COMFORT


Who knew Southern Comfort could taste any better?


1/2 ounce Southern Comfort 1/2 ounce anisette

3/4 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Southern comfort, anisette, orange juice, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


469. ORACABESSA


Named for a Jamaican city, this strong beverage is a deli-cious night treat.


1 ounce banana liqueur

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce 151-proof rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add banana liqueur, lemon juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.

 Garnish with banana and lemon slices.

470. BIRD OF PARADISE


Fun fact: There are more than forty different members of this avian family, thirty-five of which reside in New Guinea.


3/4 ounce tequila

3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce amaretto

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, cr\E8me de cacao, amaretto, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


471. PARISIAN BLONDE


As intoxicating as Brigitte Bardot. As alluring as Cather-ine Deneuve.


1 ounce light rum

3/4 ounce curacao

3/4 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add light rum, curacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
269

472. BLACK-EYED SUSAN


Susan says she walked into a door, but she left out the part about drinking immediately prior.


2 ounces Grand Marnier

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1/2 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Grand Marnier, white cr\E8me de menthe, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


473. CAF\C9 THEATRE


Serve these, and it'll be "standing room only" at your house.


1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

Hot coffee

Dash Frangelico

Dash dark cr\E8me de cacao

 Pour Irish cream liqueur and cr\E8me de cacao into a coffee mug.

 Add coffee until mug is almost filled.

 Add Frangelico and dark cr\E8me de cacao.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with cinnamon stick.

474. BLUE CARNATION


The only drink that looks good on a lapel.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce blue curacao

2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, blue curacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


475. CLIMAX


When the rest of the evening goes badly, at least there's this to look forward to.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, amaretto, triple sec, vodka, banana liqueur, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
271

476. CUPID'S KISS


Pucker up, baby-here comes the winged one, and he wants some sugar.


1/2 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 1/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de noyaux, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tulip glass.

 Garnish with a strawberry.


477. FESTIVAL


You get all the fun of a carnival, without being hassled by the carnies.


3/4 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 1 tablespoon apricot brandy 1 teaspoon grenadine

3/4 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add dark cr\E8me de cacao, apricot brandy, grena-dine, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

478. XYLOPHONE


Finally: The reward for all those summers at band camp.


1 ounce tequila

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 ounce sugar syrup 1 ounce cream

3 ounces of ice

 Pour tequila, cr\E8me de cacao, sugar syrup, cream, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into goblet.

 Garnish with a cherry.


479. EVERGLADES SPECIAL


Bonus: Keeps the gators away.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce light cream

2 teaspoons coffee liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, cr\E8me de cacao, cream, and coffee liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Add ice.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
273

480. EL MAGNIFICO


Magnificent, indeed. Mix it for your favorite Italian lover.


1 ounce vanilla liqueur

1 ounce curacao

1 ounce cream

3 ounces cracked ice

 Pour vanilla liqueur, curacao, cream, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a chilled cocktail glass.


481. WHITE ELEPHANT


Fun fact: In the story of Buddha, the white elephant is associated with fertility and knowledge.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

482. ITALIAN DELIGHT


A real Roman treasure.


1 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce orange juice

1 1/2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add amaretto, orange juice, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled stemmed glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.


483. WHITE HEART


Mix this one up for the icy hearted date du jour, and see your fortunes improve dramatically.


1/2 ounce sambuca

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sambuca, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled stemmed glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
275

484. FROSTBITE


Like a childhood snowstorm for adults-sweet and nippy, all the way out to your fingers and toes.


11/2 ounces white tequila 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 2 to 3 dashes blue curacao 2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add white tequila, cr\E8me de cacao, blue curacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a frosted sour glass.

 Add ice.


485. GOLDEN SLIPPER


Make plenty for Cinderella and her crazy stepsisters.


1 ounce apricot brandy

1 ounce yellow Chartreuse

1 egg yolk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apricot brandy, Chartreuse, and egg yolk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

486. RENAISSANCE
COCKTAIL


So you're a Renaissance Man, eh? Mix me one of these and prove it.


1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce dry sherry

1 tablespoon cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, sherry, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Dust with nutmeg


487. WIDOW'S DREAM


For those still in mourning, this makes for some solid woolgathering.


2 ounces Benedictine

1 ounce heavy cream

1 egg

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Benedictine, heavy cream, and egg.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

After Dinner Dreams
277

488. NIGHTCAP


Bedtime never tasted so relaxing.


3/4 ounce brandy

3/4 ounce curacao

3/4 ounce anisette

1 egg yolk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, curacao, anisette, and egg yolk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 

6



BAHAMA MAMA TROPICAL DRINKS-

Hula 'Til It Hurts






iki torches and grass huts. Tiny paper Tumbrellas and coconut shells. Wicked blue concoctions that conjure up images of tranquil aqua seas. Creamy dreamy frozen

treats just right for a sandy day at the beach. Tanned cabana boys in a palm fringed paradise with supermodel look-a-likes bathing in sun-drenched St. Tropez. Grab the pineapple juice, blue curacao, and rum and get ready to play beach blanket bingo on a private island getaway. With these fruity fantasies, Frankie and Annette won't be the only beach bunnies mastering the limbo and the watusi.

489. MAI TAI


The queen of tropical libations.


1 ounce dark rum

Dash of orgeat

1 1/2 ounces sour mix

1/2 ounce heavy rum

Squeeze of lime

 Fill a large old-fashioned glass with crushed ice.

 Add a cherry and a slice of pineapple.

 Pour dark rum, orgeat, and sour mix.

 Stir.

 Float heavy rum on top.

 Squeeze lime on top.

 Garnish with mint sprig and an orchid, if available.


490. FROZEN DAIQUIRI


A few of these on a tropical island and Stella won't be the only one getting her groove back.


1/2 ounce fresh lime juice

1 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces light rum

1/2 cup crushed ice

 Pour lime juice, sugar, rum, and ice into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on low speed.

 Pour into chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

Note: This drink can be made to taste more "rummy" by floating a layer of rum on top.




 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
281

491. PI\D1A COLADA


Fun fact: Rupert Holmes-creator of the 1979 number one hit song "Pi\F1a Colada"-once said he didn't even drink them. But you can.


2 ounces coconut milk or cream

2 ounces pineapple juice

1 1/2 ounces light rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coconut milk, pineapple juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a blender half-filled with crushed ice.

 Blend.

 Serve in a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple spear, a cherry and/or shredded coconut.


492. BLUE HAWAII


Where dreams come true, so sayeth the King.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce pineapple juice

1 ounce sour mix

Dash cream

Dash blue curacao

3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour rum, pineapple juice, sour mix, cream, and curacao into a blender.

 Blend.

 Garnish with tropical fruit.

493. BARRACUDA BITE


Call this one the tiger of the sea.


1 1/2 ounces 150-proof rum

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce lime juice

1 ounce grenadine

 Combine rum, vodka, lime juice, and grenadine in a cocktail shaker.

 Shake lightly.

 Pour into a zombie glass with ice.


494. CHI CHI


Drink three. Say Aloha, Gracie.


2 ounces pineapple juice

2 ounces coconut cream

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 teaspoon shredded coconut

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pineapple juice, coconut cream, vodka, and shredded coconut.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tall glass.

 Garnish with pineapple spear and a cherry.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
283

495. FIJI BLACKOUT


A drink built for two to sip as Tiki torches flicker. Dare to drink it solo and you will certainly experience a blackout of your own.


1 1/2 ounces lime juice

1 ounce light maple syrup

4 ounces dark rum

 Pour lime juice, maple syrup, and rum into cock-tail shaker.

 Stir.

 Pour in two champagne glasses filled with finely

crushed ice.

(Serves 2)


496. HULA MILKMAID


Eight hula maids a'shakin...and a monkey in a palm tree.


1 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces brandy, whiskey, or rum

8 ounces milk

 Fill a cocktail shaker with scoop of ice.

 Add sugar, liquor of choice, and milk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled highball glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.

497. HULA HULA


Even the straitlaced can't refuse a little grass skirt action after one of these delectable devils.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce orange juice

1/4 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, orange juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


498. HAWAIIAN TORCH


Take a sip or two and you'll limbo like a limber Lucy.


1 teaspoon pineapple juice

1 teaspoon lemon juice

2 ounces whiskey

Club soda

 Pour juices and whiskey into a highball glass with a few ice cubes.

 Stir.

 Fill with club soda.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
285

499. SOUTH SEAS SLEEPER


Throw away the relaxation compact discs and tune in to a most ambient delight.


1 ounce dark rum

2 ounces light rum

1/2 teaspoon honey

Juice of one lime

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rums, honey, and lime.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


500. ZOMBIE SLEEPWALKER


Legend has it that naval men would drink these and then proceed to stumble to the plank after lights out. The result: honorable discharge.


1 ounce dark rum

1 ounce light rum

1 ounce Jamaican rum

4 dashes cherry brandy

4 dashes apricot brandy

Dash papaya juice

Juice of 1/2 lime

1/2 ounce 150-proof rum

 Pour all rums, brandies, papaya, and lime juices in a zombie glass with cracked ice.

 Top with 150-proof rum.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.

 Serve with a long straw.

501. PLANTER'S PUNCH


Welakaho! Translation: Whoopee!


Juice of 2 limes

2 teaspoons powdered sugar

2 ounces club soda

2 dashes of Angostura bitters

2 1/2 ounces light rum

Dash of grenadine

 Mix lime juice, powdered sugar, and club soda in a collins glass.

 Add ice cubes.

 Stir until glass frosts.

 Add bitters and rum.

 Stir.

 Top with grenadine.

 Garnish with lemon, pineapple, orange slice, and a cherry.

 Serve with a straw.























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
287

502. COCONUT CANNON BALL


The drink of choice for tropical monkeys before a cross-country jungle race.


2 ounces gin or vodka

2 ounces coconut milk

1 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon sugar

Dash curacao

 Mix liquor of choice, coconut milk, lemon juice, sugar, and curacao in a cocktail shaker.

 Shake.

 Serve in a coconut shell.


503. SCORPION


An enchantingly potent venom.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce brandy

1 ounce sour mix

3 ounces orange juice

Dash Angostura bitters

2 ounces crushed ice

 Mix light rum, brandy, sour mix, orange juice, and bitters in a blender filled with crushed ice.

 Blend.

 Serve into a collins glass.

504. NEPTUNE'S NUPTIAL


I take this mermaid to be my lawful wedded fish.


1 ounce gin

1 ounce whiskey

1 ounce cr\E8me de menthe Juice of one lemon

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, whiskey, cr\E8me de menthe, and lemon.

 Shake well.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


505. HAWAIIAN CARESS


A gentle touch after a long day of sightseeing on Maui.


2 ounces Bacardi rum

2 ounces pineapple juice

5 drops maraschino liqueur

1 teaspoon grenadine

 Pour rum, pineapple juice, maraschino liqueur, and grenadine in a cocktail shaker.

 Stir.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with crushed ice.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
289

506. YO HO HO


And a bottle of rum for the pirate with the black eye patch, please.


Juice of 1/2 lime

1 1/2 ounces light rum

Cola soda

 Squeeze lime juice into a zombie glass.

 Drop in lime.

 Add rum.

 Add three ice cubes.

 Stir gently.


507. PASSIONATE RUMMY


Fun fact: The earliest form of gin rummy can be traced to the mid-nineteenth century Mexican card game called Conquian. Don't drink too many of these while playing or you just might lose your hand...


4 1/2 ounces passion fruit nectar

1 1/2 ounces lemon juice

1 1/2 ounce sugar syrup

7 1/2 ounces light rum

 Pour passion fruit nectar, lemon juice, sugar syrup, and light rum in a cocktail shaker.

 Stir well until blended.

 Pour over cracked ices in deep-saucer champagne glasses.
(Serves 4)

508. SEA SERPENT'S MILK


Ever wonder if there is an underwater chapter of the La Leche League?


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1/2 ounce cream

 Pour brandy in a cordial glass.

 Float cream on top.


509. LEI OF THE HOUR


And the award goes to: insert your best lover's name here.


1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce brandy

1 ounce cream

1. Layer in above order in a cordial glass.


510. MERMAID'S DELIGHT


The little mermaid's drink of choice on her 21st birthday.


1 ounce cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce cream

1. Layer in above order in a cordial glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
291

511. SOUTH SEA SIREN


"Come to me, and indulge in my nightcap," whispers the South Sea Siren. Don't be shy. Dive in.


1 ounce cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1. Layer in above order in a cordial glass.


512. WHISPERING REEF


Hey, Fred. Did that reef just whisper to me? No, Barney.

That's your conscience telling you to lay off the gin.


1 ounce dry gin

1 ounce cr\E8me de menthe

2 ounces pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with cracked ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de menthe, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

513. MISTY ISLAND


The scene of many a torrid romance. Drink and frolic.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with cracked ice.

 Add lemon, sugar, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled highball glass.

 Fill with cold club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with mint sprigs.


514. BLUE DEVIL


Just because it's blue doesn't mean it's gentle. This devil wears a disguise.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce blue curacao

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, curacao, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon slice.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
293

515. BAHAMA MAMA


Forget the PTA! This drink will make any soccer mom want to sign up for hula classes.


1/2 ounce dark rum

1/2 ounce coconut liqueur

1/4 ounce 151-proof rum

1/4 ounce coffee liqueur

Juice of half lemon

4 ounces pineapple juice

 Pour rums, liqueurs, and juices in a cocktail shaker.

 Stir gently.

 Pour into a highball glass with cracked ice.


516. FOG CUTTER


A misnomer: This is hardly the cocktail to make you see clearly.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce gin

1 ounce orange juice

3 tablespoon lemon juice

1 1/2 ounces orgeat syrup

1 teaspoon sweet sherry

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, brandy, gin, juices, and orgeat syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.

 Top with sherry.

517. HAVANA COCKTAIL


The perfect accompaniment for that cigar smuggler. You know who you are.


1 1/2 ounces pineapple juice 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice 1/4 ounce light rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pineapple juice, lemon juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
295

518. CRYSTAL BLUE PERSUASION


A drink for lazy days by the pool that will make life appear exactly as desired.


1/2 ounce Hypnotiq

1/2 ounce orange vodka

1/2 ounce vanilla vodka

1/4 ounce blue curacao

2 to 3 ounces pineapple juice Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Hypnotiq, vodkas, curacao, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a blue sugar-rimmed chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange twist or a blue rock candy swizzle stick.

*Created by Stephanie Caruthers, Trio's, Little Rock, Ark.

519. HURRICANE


Blows in fast, leaves a deadly aftermath.


1 ounce dark rum

1 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce Galliano

3/4 ounce lime juice

1 ounce passion fruit syrup

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

1 1/2 ounces pineapple juice Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rums, Galliano, lime juice, passion fruit syrup, juices, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a hurricane glass filled with ice.

 Garnish with tropical fruit.


520. MIAMI


The consummate companion for the bling bling of South Beach.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe Dash of lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, white cr\E8me de menthe, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
297

521. PASSION DAIQUIRI


Brings out the passion in even the stoniest curmudgeon.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

Juice of 1 lime

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 tablespoon passion fruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, powdered sugar, and passion fruit juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


522. RUM RICKEY


If you don't like this one, you've got some splainin' to do.


Juice of 1/2 lime

1/2 ounces light rum

Club soda

 Pour lime juice and rum in a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with lime wedge.

523. SANTIAGO COCKTAIL


Make like an old Chilean bartender and share this with guests.


1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 1/4 teaspoon grenadine Juice of 1 lime

1 1/2 ounces light rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add powdered sugar, grenadine, lime juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


524. TAHITI CLUB


Not to be confused with Club Med, but feel free to indulge and disrobe.


2 ounces light rum

1 tablespoon lemon juice

1 tablespoon lime juice

1 tablespoon pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, juices, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Garnish with a lemon slice.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
299

525. TROPICA COCKTAIL


Take your baby and nestle in the nearest Tiki hut with a couple of these tropical tipples.


1 1/4 ounces light rum

5 ounces pineapple juice

2 ounces grapefruit juice

Dash grenadine

 Pour rum, juices, and grenadine in a collins glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge.

526. ZOMBIE


Let your eyes roll back in your head and get ready for some voodoo loving. Only one per customer, please.


1 ounce unsweetened pineapple juice Juice of 1 lime

Juice of 1 small orange

1 teaspoon powdered sugar 1/2 ounce apricot brandy 2 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce Jamaican rum

1 ounce passion fruit syrup, if desired

1 ounce 151-proof rum

1/2 cup crushed ice

 Pour all juices, powdered sugar, apricot brandy, rums, and passion fruit syrup in a blender.

 Blend at low speed for 1 minute.

 Strain into a frosted highball glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple stick and a cherry.

 Float 151-proof rum on top.






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
301

527. WIKI WAKI WOO


Watch out for that wave, dude.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce 151-proof rum

1/2 ounce tequila

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 ounce amaretto

1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce pineapple juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

 Pour all ingredients in a cocktail mixer filled with ice.

 Stir.

 Pour into a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.

528. EAST INDIA COCKTAIL


Don't dare take a flask of these on your elephant ride. You just might end up hugging the trunk.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1/2 teaspoon pineapple juice 1/2 teaspoon triple sec

1 teaspoon Jamaican rum

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, pineapple juice, triple sec, rum, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel and a cherry.



529. FROZEN BANANA DAIQUIRI


Mix these with a wild and crazy tropical shirt and let it all hang out at the next company picnic.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1 ounce banana liqueur

1/4 sliced banana

1 teaspoon sugar

1/2 ounce cream

1/2 cup crushed ice

 Pour ingredients in blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into oversized wine glass.

 Garnish with lime wedge.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
303

530. MERMAID'S CHOICE


This magical potion will turn any mermaid from her fishy ways.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce dry vermouth

Dash cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, orange juice, vermouth, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


531. BANANA MANGO


A wondrous concoction of tropical flavors sure to ease your cares away.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/4 ounce banana liqueur

1/2 ounce mango nectar

1/2 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, banana liqueur, mango nectar, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled old-fashioned glass with ice.

532. CONCH SHELL


Unlike its namesake, this drink does not blow.


4 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a double old-fashioned glass with ice.


533. GAUGUIN


Fun fact: This depressed post-Impressionist French painter once worked as a stock broker. No wonder there's a drink named after him.


2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce passion fruit syrup 1/2 ounce lemon juice 4 ounces lime juice

1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on low speed.

 Pour into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
305

534. ISLE OF THE BLESSED COCONUT


In this episode: You and your friends get drunk. Again.

Tune in for more next week. Same time. Same channel.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce cream of coconut 1/2 ounce lime juice 1/4 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce orange juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on low speed.

 Pour into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

 Garnish with a toasted coconut slice.


535. ICE PALACE


Cool as an ice queen's abode.


1 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce Galliano

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

2 ounces pineapple juice

1/4 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, Galliano, apricot brandy, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass over ice.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.

536. SAN JUAN


After you taste this, you'll be a loyal and avid supporter of Puerto Rican statehood.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce grapefruit juice

1 teaspoon cream of coconut

2 teaspoons lime juice

1/3 cup crushed ice

2 teaspoons 151-proof rum

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on low speed.

 Pour into chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

 Float 151-proof rum on top.


537. HAWAIIAN EYE


The official drink of Hawaiian private investigators. Don't tell Jack Lord.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

1 ounce coffee liqueur

1 ounce heavy cream

1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1 teaspoon Pernod

1 egg white

3 ounces cracked ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds.

 Pour into chilled highball glass.

 Garnish with a cherry and a pineapple slice.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
307

538. ACAPULCO


Elvis said when in Acapulco, bossa nova, baby.


1 3/4 ounces rum

1/4 ounce triple sec

1 egg white

1/2 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, triple sec, egg white, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Garnish with mint leaves.


539. COCO LOCO


The only good reason to be caught buying whole coconuts at the grocery store.


1 whole coconut in shell

1 ounce tequila

1 ounce rum

1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce grenadine

1 lemon slice

 Cut a hole in the top of the coconut, leaving juice inside.

 Pour tequila, rum, gin, and grenadine into coconut cup.

 Add several ice cubes.

 Stir.

 Squeeze a lemon slice into the coconut.

 Drop in the lemon.

 Serve with long straw.

540. BARBARY COAST
COCKTAIL


Arrrgh. Pour me another said the pirate to the barkeep.


1/2 ounce dry gin

1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/2 ounce scotch

1/2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, rum, cr\E8me de cacao, scotch, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


541. CHIQUITA COCKTAIL


Dare to embrace your inner-Carmen Miranda. Drink these, and wear bananas on your head.


1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1/2 ounce Cointreau

1/2 ounce light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add banana liqueur, Cointreau, and light cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sour glass half-filled with crushed ice.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
309

542. GORILLA MILK


It takes a brave man to milk a gorilla. Well worth the risk.


1 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de banana 1 ounce light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, liqueurs, cr\E8me de banana, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with a banana slice.


543. CASABLANCA


Bogie and Bacall. They had it all. Pour it again, Sam.


2 ounces light rum

1 1/2 teaspoon triple sec

1 1/2 teaspoon lime juice

1 1/2 teaspoon cherry liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add light rum, triple sec, lime juice, and cherry liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

544. PINEAPPLE DREAM COCKTAIL


Serve these up while roasting the whole hog at the next family luau.


1/2 ounce pineapple juice

Juice of 1/2 lime

1 ounce rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pineapple juice, lime juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


545. CALYPSO


Day-o. Day-ay-ay-o. Daylight come but me no wanna go home.


3/4 ounce Tia Maria

3/4 ounce Jamaican rum

Hot coffee

 Pour Tia Maria and rum into a coffee mug.

 Fill with hot coffee.

 Top with whipped cream, if desired.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
311

546. PINEAPPLE FIZZ


Beware: Too much of this concoction will leave you with dancing pineapple hallucinations.


1 ounce pineapple juice

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces rum

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pineapple juice, powdered sugar, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with club soda.


547. BRASS MONKEY


That funky monkey...you can be a brass monkey junkie.

Try one and see.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce light rum

5 ounces orange juice

 Fill highball glass with ice.

 Add vodka, rum, and orange juice.

 Stir.

548. SHANGHAI COCKTAIL


A (Shanghai) surprise in every drop.


Juice of 1/4 lemon

1 teaspoon anisette

1 ounce Jamaican rum

1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, anisette, rum, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


549. BEE STUNG LIPS


Think Angelina Jolie and Mick Jagger. Pout accordingly.


2 ounces light rum

1 teaspoon honey

1 teaspoon heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, honey, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
313

550. ASTRONAUT


After a few of these, Major Nelson calls Genie "master." Master of the bottle, that is.


1 1/2 ounces Jamaican rum

1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice

1 1/2 teaspoon passion fruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, vodka, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with ice.


551. FROZEN MARGARITA


Buffett. Wastin' Away. You get the picture.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1/2 ounce triple sec

1 ounce sour mix

Dash Rose's lime juice

4 ounces ice

 Pour ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds until smooth.

 Pour into large wine glass or margarita goblet.

 Garnish with a lime slice.

552. BANANA MAMA


Say a toast. Nani Wahine: To a beautiful woman.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce dark rum

1 ounce banana liqueur

1 ounce cream of coconut

1 ounce fresh strawberries

2 ounces pineapple juice

3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.


553. BANANA BOAT


Gilligan made one of these to leave the island. Mr. Howell gulped it down and fell asleep in a hammock. Foiled again!


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1/2 ounce banana liqueur

1 ounce lime juice

2 ounces crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a sour glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
315

554. RUM JULEP


The sassy Caribbean cousin to the famous Mint Julep.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1 teaspoon sugar

1 ounce water

8 mint sprigs

 Muddle four mint sprigs, sugar, and water in a collins glass.

 Fill glass with crushed ice.

 Stir until glass frosts.

 Add four mint springs to glass.

 Add rum.


555. PSYCHO TSUNAMI


Also called The Ex-girlfriend.


1/2 ounce blue curacao

1/2 ounce fresh lime juice

1/2 ounce tequila

2 dashes Tabasco sauce

 Layer curacao, lime juice, tequila, and Tabasco sauce in shot class.

 Allow Tabasco to settle before drinking.

556. SHARK BITE


Not as deadly as the Great White. Consider this the Jab-berjaw of rum drinks.


1 1/2 ounces dark rum

3 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce sour mix

3/4 ounce grenadine

3 ounces ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.


557. COBBLER'S COOLER


Geppetto, the cobbler, and Pinocchio, the real boy, drank these on tropical holidays in the later years.


2 1/2 ounces white rum

1 ounce vodka

Dash Grand Marnier

1 banana

Dash Angostura bitters

Dash nutmeg

3 ounces cracked ice

Orange juice

 Pour rum, vodka, Grand Marnier, and banana into a blender with ice.

 Blend until smooth.

 Add bitters and nutmeg.

 Top with orange juice.

 Pour into a zombie glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice and an edible flower.

 Serve with a straw.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
317

558. SHARK'S TOOTH


The surfer's reward for cresting the killer wave and sur-viving.


1 1/2 ounces dark rum

1 1/2 ounces lime juice

1 1/2 ounces lemon juice

1/4 ounce grenadine

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, juices, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.


559. COCOTINI


A fave of Malibu Barbies. Perfect for relaxing poolside at the Dream House.


3 ounces coconut flavored rum

1 ounce triple sec

Coconut shavings

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and triple sec.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass rimmed with coconut shavings.

 Garnish with a lime wheel.

560. TROPICAL ITCH


Drink up! This one is worth the Calamine lotion.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce orange curacao

4 ounces passion fruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, light rum, orange curacao, and passion fruit juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a double old-fashioned with ice.


561. LAVA FLOW


This lava flow will send people stampeding...toward the bar.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce coconut-flavored rum

2 ounces strawberries

1 ripe banana

2 ounces unsweetened pineapple juice

2 ounces coconut cream

 Pour strawberries and rums into a blender.

 Blend until a smooth paste.

 Pour paste into a hurricane glass.

 Rinse blender.

 Add banana, pineapple juice, and coconut cream into the blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Slowly pour blender mix into the hurricane glass.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
319

562. BLUE DIABLO


What Satan looks like when hell freezes over.


1 1/4 ounces tequila

4 ounces lemon-lime soda Splash blue curacao Salt


 Pour tequila and lemon-lime soda into a salt-rimmed old-fashioned glass filled with ice.

 Add splash of curacao.


563. SEX ON THE BEACH


Confession time...Have you had it?


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce peach schnapps

1 1/2 ounces cranberry juice

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

 Build vodka, peach schnapps, and juices into a highball with ice.

564. BEACHCOMBER


Ah, a fitting end to a hard day of shell seeking.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce grenadine

1 ounce sour mix

Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, triple sec, grenadine, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


565. RUMBAS


Drink two and get out on the dance floor. Clap, clap.


1/4 cup fresh papaya cubes (or chunks) 1/4 cup fresh cantaloupe cubes (or chunks) 3/4 cup pineapple juice 3/4 cup orange juice

6 ounces light rum

1 tablespoon grenadine

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Fill blender with ice.

 Blend until slushy.

 Pour into highball glasses.

 Garnish with orange slices and cherries. (Serves 4)






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
321

566. TROPICAL PINEAPPLE PARADISE


The Shangri-la of tropical drinks. Tastes best when con-sumed in the presence of palm trees, sand, and plenty of bikinis.


2 ounces pineapple liqueur

1 ounce coconut rum

Cranberry juice

 Pour pineapple liqueur and rum into a tall glass.

 Fill with cranberry juice.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge.


567. REEF RUNNER


The ideal drink for a three-hour tour.


1 ounce dark rum

1/2 ounce blackberry brandy 1/2 ounce apricot brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and brandies.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glace filled with ice.

 Fill with a favorite tropical juice. Bartender's choice.

568. TEQUILA SUNRISE


Drink this while the sun is coming up...


2 ounces tequila

4 ounces orange juice

1 ounce grenadine

 Pour tequila into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with orange juice.

 Stir.

 Add grenadine by tilting the glass and pouring down the side.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.


569. TEQUILA SUNSET


...and drink this while the sun is going down.


1 ounce tequila

Orange juice

1/2 ounce blackberry brandy 1 cherry

 Pour tequila into a collins glass filled with ice.

 Fill with orange juice.

 Stir.

 Top with blackberry brandy.

 Stir lightly.

 Add cherry on top.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
323

570. POLYNESIAN PARADISE


A sure-fire gateway drink to nirvana.


1 1/2 ounces golden rum

1 teaspoon brown sugar

3/4 ounce lime juice

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/4 ounce triple sec 1/3 cup crushed ice

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on low speed.

 Pour into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.


571. FLAMINGO COCKTAIL


After three, it's guaranteed: You'll be standing on one leg.

Turning pink optional.


1/2 ounce lime juice

1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1/4 ounce grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lime juice, gin, brandy, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

572. ROSEATE SPOONBILL


Fun fact: This pink Caribbean bird has a wing-span of over five feet and a bill shaped like a spoon. Guard that drink!


1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce spiced rum

1/2 ounce Licor 43

1 ounce grapefruit juice

1 ounce guava nectar

2 dashes grenadine

3 ounces ice

 Pour rums, Licor 43, grapefruit juice, and guava nectar into a blender.

 Place a dash of grenadine in a chilled margarita glass.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into the glass.

 Add second dash of grenadine.

 Swirl with swizzle stick or piece of sugar cane.






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
325

573. JAMAICA GLOW


Are you part firefly, baby? Cause Jamaican me glow.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry red wine

1/2 ounce orange juice

1 teaspoon dark Jamaican rum Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, wine, orange juice, and rum.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled sugar-rimmed cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


574. PINK CREOLE


King Creole's little sister.


1 1/2 ounces golden rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon cream

1 teaspoon grenadine

1 rum-soaked black cherry

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, cream, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Add black cherry.

575. RUM AND PINEAPPLE COOLER


Be nice to the cabana boy, and he'll put in an extra shot of rum for you.


2 1/2 ounces light rum

2 ounces pineapple juice

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon 151-proof rum

1 teaspoon sugar

Dash Angostura bitters

Iced club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rums, juices, sugar, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Add splash of club soda and ice to fill glass.

 Garnish with a spear of pineapple and papaya chunks.























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
327

576. RUM AND COCONUT COOLER


If castaways indulge in this drink, they may never want to leave the island.


2 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce cream of coconut

1/2 ounce lemon juice

Iced club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, cream of coconut, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass half-filled with ice.

 Add splash of club soda.

 Garnish with a lemon slice and a cherry.


577. SLEEPY LAGOON


One relaxes. Two sedates. Three, indeed, will make you meditate.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce dry gin

1/2 ounce orange juice

Dash lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, gin, orange, and lemon juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

578. A LITTLE DINGHY


Have a few of these and your friends just might call you "a little dinghy." Take it as a compliment.


3 ounces of Captain Morgan's Parrot Bay rum

3 ounces of Malibu coconut rum

1 part cranberry juice

1 part pineapple juice

1 part orange juice

 Pour rums into a highball glass filled with ice.

 Fill the glass with equal parts cranberry, pineapple, and orange juices.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge, an orange slice, and a cocktail umbrella.


579. CARIBBEAN ROMANCE


Popular with match-making cruise ship directors. Sure to spark a kiss or two under the moonlight.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce amaretto

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

1 1/2 ounces pineapple juice Splash of grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, amaretto, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Float grenadine on top.

 Garnish with an orange slice.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
329

580. A DAY AT THE BEACH


...never felt so good.


1 ounce coconut flavored rum 1/2 ounce amaretto

4 ounces orange juice

1/2 ounce grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, amaretto, orange juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with grenadine.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge and a strawberry.


581. RUM ROYALE


The king of all tropical drinks.


1 ounce light rum

2 ounces Sauternes

1 1/2 ounces lemon juice

2 ounces pineapple juice

1 teaspoon sugar

Dash Peychaud's bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, Sauternes, juices, sugar, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled collins glass.

 Add ice to fill glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple cube and a cherry.

582. PINEAPPLE PLANTER'S PICKUP


If you had to pick pineapples all day, wouldn't you need a pick-me-up?


2 ounces gin

2 ounces pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


583. POKER COCKTAIL


Deal these and you're guaranteed a full house.


1 1/2 ounces sweet vermouth

1 1/2 ounces light rum

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth and rum.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
331

584. MANHATTAN HAWAII


For the vacationing city slicker who can't bear to leave the metropolis behind.


1 1/2 ounces whiskey

3/4 ounce sweet vermouth Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


585. PINEAPPLE BOOMERANG


The drink that returns with a knockout punch.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce vermouth

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

586. TAHITI MILKMAID


Her name is Lola, and she mixes the most wicked cocktails on the isle of Tahiti. This creation will leave you wanting more.


2 ounces gin

1 ounce grenadine

1 teaspoon cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, grenadine, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


587. SWEET LEILANI


One look at Sweet Leilani and Dave knew he wasn't in Kansas anymore.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce grenadine

1/2 ounce lemon juice

2 dashes Angostura bitters Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, grenadine, lemon juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball cocktail glass with ice.

 Top with club soda.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Bahama Mama Tropical Drinks
333

588. PREACHER'S PANIC PUNCH


A preacher's worst nightmare. This punch at a church social? Heavens to Betsy!


2 ounces rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1 ounce pineapple juice

1/2 ounce guava juice

1/2 ounce grenadine

Club soda

 Pour rum, juices, and grenadine into a zombie glass filled with shaved ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with chilled club soda.


589. MISSIONARY'S MISTAKE


Legend has it a missionary traveled deep into the African jungle, made a wrong turn, and threw caution to the wind. St. Peter was not amused.


2 ounces gin

1 1/2 ounces apricot brandy

1 ounce lemon juice

3 mint stalks

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apricot brandy, and lemon juice.

 Shake until mint stalks are crushed.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

590. AUSSIE BEACH BLOND


As author Anita Loos once remarked, "Gentlemen always seem to remember blondes." Indeed, this cocktail is one to remember.


2 1/4 ounces white rum

2 ounces Cointreau

1 1/2 teaspoon sugar

3/4 ounce lime juice

1 1/4 ounces orange juice

Juice of 1 passion fruit

1/4 cup crushed ice

 Pour rum, Cointreau, juices, and sugar in a blender with ice.

 Blend until slushy.

 Pour into a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with lemon, lime, and orange slices.


























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

7



SHOTS AND SLAMMERS FOR THE PERPETUAL 21-YEAR-OLD-

Sorority and Fraternity Fantasia




dmit it. You'd order a shot called a Blow AJob in college and snicker about it for days. Even brag about it. You know you would. But would you order that drink when you

were thirty-five? Only if you were in the midst of a midlife crisis, craving a college-aged cutie, and a red sports car. We can't promise you the car or the girl, but, no question, these shots and slammers will send you down memory lane. Some of them flame. Literally. Some even wiggle, thanks to Jell-O. Down a couple-or four-with lethal names like Kamikaze and Alien Secretion, and you'll rocket to Mars faster than anything NASA could invent. Remember to buckle up!

591. AFTER FIVE


Another sweet reason to finish your TPS reports on time.


1/3 ounce coffee liqueur

1/3 ounce peppermint schnapps 1/3 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Layer coffee liqueur, peppermint schnapps, and Irish cream liqueur in a shot glass.


592. AFTER EIGHT


Clarification: Drink's name is not an invitation to demon-strate what great tricks you can do after eight servings.


1/3 ounce coffee liqueur

1/3 ounce Irish cream liqueur

1/3 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe

 Layer coffee liqueur, Irish cream liqueur, and cr\E8me de menthe in a shot glass.



















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
337

593. ALABAMA SLAMMER


Drink four, say name three times fast, win a prize.


1 1/2 ounces sloe gin

1 1/2 ounces amaretto

1 1/2 ounces Southern Comfort

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sloe gin, amaretto, Southern Comfort, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into four shot glasses.

(Serves 4)


594. ANTIFREEZE


Proper system maintenance is critical to maximizing your engine's performance.


1/2 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe 1/2 ounce vodka

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de menthe and vodka.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

595. B-53


Now with even more flavor than the B-52!


1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce Grand Marnier 1/2 ounce vodka

 Layer coffee liqueur, Irish cream liqueur, Grand Marnier, and vodka into a shot glass.


596. PURPLE HOOTER
SHOOTER


Note: In the event hooters remain purple for more than four hours, seek immediate medical attention.


3 ounces vodka

1 ounce Rose's lime juice

Dash of Chambord

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, Rose's lime juice, and Chambord.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
339

597. JOLLY RANCHER


Like a trip to the candy store. A candy store where you get carded.


3/4 ounces vodka

1/4 ounce melon liqueur 1/4 ounce peach schnapps Splash of cranberry juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, melon liqueur, peach schnapps, and cranberry juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


598. BABY RUTH


In the 1927 World Series, Babe Ruth called his shot and homered. Time for you to call yours.


1/2 ounce Frangelico

1/2 ounce vodka

Three peanuts

 Layer Frangelico and vodka in a shot glass.

 Add peanuts.

599. BUTTERY NIPPLE


"The lady will have the linguine with white clam sauce and a Buttery Nipple." Who says chivalry can't be fun?


1/2 ounce butterscotch schnapps 1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Layer butterscotch schnapps and Irish cream liqueur.




600. MELTDOWN


Designed to thaw even the iciest of hearts. Recommended for standoffish blind dates.


1 ounce chilled vodka

1/2 ounce peach schnapps

 Pour chilled vodka into a shot glass.

 Top with peach schnapps.


601. PURPLE HAZE


Actin' funny, and you don't know why? S'cuse me while I...


1/2 ounce sambuca

1/2 ounce Chambord

 Pour sambuca into shot glass.

 Slowly add Chambord.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
341

602. HAWAIIAN PUNCH


Please resist the urge to smack the guy who requests this drink. It just means you're old enough to remember the commercial.


1/4 ounce cr\E8me de almond 1/4 ounce Southern Comfort 1/4 ounce vodka

1/4 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de almond, Southern Comfort, vodka, and pineapple juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.


603. BEAM ME UP SCOTTY


Don't be a Klingon-passing this one up is simply not logical.


1/3 ounce coffee liqueur

1/3 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/3 ounce banana liqueur

 Layer coffee liqueur, Irish cream liqueur, and banana liqueur.

604. KAMIKAZE


Tora! Tora! Tora!


2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce Rose's lime juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, and Rose's lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into two shot glasses.

(Serves 2)


605. BLOW JOB


Makes Monday morning's break room recounting of Friday night a lot more interesting.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce coffee-flavored brandy 1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, coffee-flavored brandy, and coffee liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

 Top with whipped cream.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
343

606. MISSION ACCOMPLISHED


Banner not included.


2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce Rose's lime juice Dash of grenadine

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, Rose's lime juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


607. E.T.


Serve with side order of Reese's Pieces.


3/4 ounce melon liqueur

3/4 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Layer melon liqueur, vodka, and Irish cream liqueur.

608. PEANUT BUTTER AND JELLY


Mmm...just like Mom used to make when you weren't looking.


3/4 ounce Frangelico

3/4 ounce Chambord

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Frangelico and Chambord.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


609. LEMON DROP


Giggly coeds frequently lose their grip on this one.


1/2 ounce chilled tequila

1/2 ounce chilled vodka

Lemon slice

Sugar

 Moisten inside of a shot glass with lemon slice.

 Coat inside of shot glass with sugar.

 Add tequila and vodka.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
345

610. CANDY BAR


The bouncer at the Candy Bar? A surly, aging Willy Wonka.


1/2 ounce Frangelico

1/2 ounce vodka

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Frangelico and vodka.

 Strain into a shot glass.


611. MEXICAN FLAG


Order one for the Mexican head of state, win additional NAFTA concessions. Never underestimate the power of drunken diplomacy.


1/2 ounce sloe gin

1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce melon liqueur

 Pour sloe gin into a shot glass.

 Float vodka on top of sloe gin.

 Float melon liqueur on top of vodka.

612. PANCHO VILLA


Pancho Villa was a tough, hardcore Mexican revolutionary. No better way to salute this brave man than with a fruity cocktail.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1 teaspoon cherry brandy

1 teaspoon pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add light rum, gin, brandies, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass filled with ice.


613. TO THE MOON


"One of these days, Alice, one of these days...POW!" Pour a little out for Jackie Gleason, RIP.


1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce 151-proof rum

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur, amaretto, Irish cream liqueur, and 151-proof rum.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
347

614. BLOODY CAESAR


"Et tu? Okay, you got the first round, I'll pick up this one. Who wants peanuts?"


1 littleneck clam

2 drops Worcestershire sauce

2 drops Tabasco sauce

Dash of horseradish

1 ounce vodka

1 1/2 ounces tomato juice

 Place littleneck clam in bottom of shot glass.

 Add Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce, and horseradish.

 Add vodka and tomato juice.

 Sprinkle celery salt on top.

 Garnish with lime juice.


615. PIGSKIN SHOT


Soon to be the official stadium smuggled drink for Arkansas Razorback fans everywhere. Woo Pig Sooiee!


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce melon liqueur

1/2 ounce sour mix

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, melon liqueur, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

616. SNOW CAP


Like a favorite hat, this one will keep your head nice and warm.


1/2 ounce tequila

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Layer tequila and Irish cream liqueur into a shot glass.




617. WOO WOO


Hard to order this one with a straight face, but give it a try.

Well worth the bartender's raised eyebrow.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce cranberry juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, peach schnapps, and cranberry juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
349

618. ROCK LOBSTER


A shout out to one of the best dance songs ever.


1/3 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/3 ounce amaretto

1/3 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao

 Layer Irish cream liqueur, amaretto, and cr\E8me de cacao in a shot glass.


619. TEQUILA POPPER


This one has scarred many a bachelor party table.


1 ounce tequila

1/2 ounce 7-up

 Pour tequila into a shot glass.

 Add 7-Up.

 Place napkin over top of glass.

 Bang glass on table.

 Drink immediately.

620. NUTTY PROFESSOR


Consumed by wildhaired academics around the globe.


1/2 ounce Grand Marnier

1/2 ounce Frangelico

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Grand Marnier, Frangelico, and Irish cream liqueur.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.


621. SILVER SPIDER


Like the \FCbercool Italian car, this one handles like a champ.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, rum, triple sec, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
351

622. WOMBAT


Fun Fact: The wombat is the world's largest burrowing mammal-and now a delicious beverage.


2 ounces dark rum

1/2 ounce strawberry liqueur 2 ounces orange juice

3 ounces pineapple juice

6 ounces fresh watermelon juice

 Fill a cocktail shaker with dark rum, strawberry liqueur, orange juice, pineapple juice, and water-

melon juice.

 Shake.

 Pour into shot glasses. (Serves 4)


623. RUSSIAN QUAALUDE


How do you say "duuuude...look at my hand..." in Russian?


1/3 ounces Frangelico

1/3 ounces Irish cream liqueur 1/3 ounces vodka

 Layer Frangelico, Irish cream liqueur, and vodka in a shot glass.

624. TIDY BOWL


Drink the Tidy Bowl now and hug the bowl later. Perfect!


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 to 2 drops blue curacao

2 raisins

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka and blue curacao.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.

 Plop in raisins.


625. SILK PANTIES


Get these down as fast as possible.


3/4 ounce peach schnapps 3/4 ounce sambuca

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add peach schnapps and sambuca.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
353

626. GREEN DEMON


Seen this guy on your shoulder once or twice? Fun guy, ter-rible adviser.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce rum

1/2 ounce melon liqueur

1/2 ounce lemonade

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, rum, melon liqueur, and lemonade.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


627. SNACK BITE


Word around the campfire is that former Girl Scouts like these. Enjoy with a box of cookies.


2 ounces Canadian whiskey

1 ounce Rose's lime juice

 Pour Canadian whiskey and Rose's lime juice in a shot glass.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.

628. TEDDY BEAR


At last: The real reason Paddington got lost.


1/2 ounce root beer schnapps 1/2 ounce vodka

 Layer root beer schnapps and vodka in a shot glass.


629. SNOW SHOE


Surely, Santa has downed a few of these on his annual journey.


1 1/2 ounce Wild Turkey

1/2 ounces peppermint schnapps

 Fill a rocks glass with ice.

 Add Wild Turkey and peppermint schnapps.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.




















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
355

630. MONKEY SHINE


Why Curious George hangs around that man in the yellow hat.


1/2 ounce Southern Comfort 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de banana 1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort, cr\E8me de banana, and Irish cream liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cordial glass.


631. MELON BALL


Rumored around frat houses to be the real last name of John Cougar.


1 ounce melon liqueur

1 ounce vodka

1 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add melon liqueur, vodka, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

632. GALACTIC ALE


Set phasers to "stun"...a drink for terrestrials and extra-terrestrials alike.


1 1/4 ounces vodka

1 1/4 ounces blue curacao

1 ounce lime juice

1/2 ounce Chambord

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, blue curacao, lime juice, and Cham-bord.

 Shake.

 Strain into two shot glasses.

(Serves 2)


633. ORGASM


You know what they say: Even when it's bad, it's still pretty good.


1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Irish cream liqueur, amaretto, and coffee liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
357

634. SCREAMING ORGASM


This is why the neighbors in the next apartment giggle when they see you. The walls have ears.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, Irish cream liqueur, amaretto, and cof-fee liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.


635. IRISH FROST


Begorrah! With this drink handy, who needs to find the end of the rainbow?


1 1/2 ounces Irish cream liqueur Splash cream of coconut Splash half and half

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Irish cream liqueur, cream of coconut, and half and half.

 Shake.

 Strain into cordial glass.

 Garnish with cinnamon.

636. OATMEAL COOKIE


Just like Grandma used to make. After you went to bed.


1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce Goldschlager

1/2 ounce butterscotch schnapps

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Irish cream liqueur, Goldschlager, and butterscotch schnapps.

 Shake.

 Strain into rocks glass.


637. ORIENTAL RUG


The man who drinks too many of these ends up flat on the floor.


1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce Frangelico 1/2 ounce Jagermeister

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

Dash of cola

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Irish cream liqueur, Frangelico, Jagermeister, coffee liqueur, and cola.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
359

638. INTERNATIONAL
INCIDENT


Some drinks are not worth causing trouble over. Here's an exception. Thank heavens for diplomatic immunity.


1/4 ounce vodka

1/4 ounce coffee liqueur

1/4 ounce amaretto

1/4 ounce Frangelico

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, coffee liqueur, amaretto, Frangelico, and Irish cream liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


639. OH MY GOSH!


"Oh My Gosh": A popular sorority often linked with the frat boys from I Tappa Kegg.


1 ounce amaretto

1 ounce peach schnapps

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add amaretto and peach schnapps.

 Stir.

 Strain into a shot glass.

640. MIND ERASER


There's something to be said for truth in advertising.

Kudos to this drink for telling it like it is.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

1 1/4 ounces vodka

1 ounce tonic water

 Fill a rocks glass with ice.

 Add coffee liqueur and vodka.

 Top with tonic water.

 Stir gently.

 Drink through a straw in one shot.


641. JELLY BEAN


Some would say this should be the after-dinner drink of the Reagan Presidential Library.


1 ounce anisette

1 ounce blackberry brandy

 Pour anisette and blackberry brandy into cordial glass.

 Stir.

 Add ice, if desired.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
361

642. WINDEX


Whether drinking it or using it to clean windows, one firm rule: no streaking.


3/4 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce triple sec

3/4 ounce blue curacao

3/4 ounce Rose's lime juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, blue curacao, and Rose's lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.


643. SCOOBY SNACKS


"That's not a real bartender! It's....Mr. Johnson!!??" Drink

up, meddling kids.


3/4 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce melon liqueur

3/4 ounce coconut rum liqueur 1 ounce pineapple juice 1/2 ounce of cream

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, melon liqueur, coconut rum liqueur, pineapple juice, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.

644. SLIPPERY NIPPLE


A real mouthful for gutter boys.


2 ounces sambuca

1 1/2 ounces Irish cream liqueur Drop grenadine

 Pour sambuca into a cocktail glass.

 Float Irish cream liqueur on top of sambuca.

 Pour a drop of grenadine in the middle.


645. MEXICAN ROSE


Watch out for the golden thorn.


3/4 ounce Chambord

1/4 ounce gold tequila

Sugar

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Chambord and gold tequila.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-frosted chilled cordial glass.

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
363

646. HONOLULU SHOOTER


Don't you know Don Ho-wannabees are all about drinking these with the ladies? Add ukulele music at bartender's discretion.


1 ounce gin

1 teaspoon pineapple juice

1 teaspoon orange juice

1 teaspoon lemon juice

1 teaspoon pineapple syrup Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add gin, juices, pineapple syrup, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.

647. KALASHNIKOV SHOT


Liquor, fire, and a famed Russian weapon? Count me in!


3/4 ounce vodka

1/4 ounce absinthe

1 slice Lemon

Pinch of cinnamon

Pinch of sugar

 Fill a shot glass with vodka.

 Place a lemon slice halfway across the top of the glass.

 Fill the rest of the shot glass with absinthe, pour-ing so that it passes through the lemon.

 Add cinnamon and sugar to the lemon.

 Ignite the lemon.

 When it extinguishes itself, down the shot and eat the lemon.


648. BARBIE SHOT


Note: 1 ounce + 1 ounce + 1 ounce + 1 ounce...math is hard!


1 ounce coconut rum liqueur

1 ounce vodka

1 ounce cranberry juice

1 ounce orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add coconut rum liqueur, vodka, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into two rocks glass.

(Serves 2)



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
365

649. FUZZY SCREW SHOT


Sounds like some sort of porno script direction. Drink up before the director (or bartender) yells, "Cut!"


1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce triple sec

 Pour a double shot glass half full of vodka.

 Pour the peach schnapps into the next quarter.

 Pour the triple sec in the remaining quarter.

 Stir and shoot.


650. THE FIG


Ever heard that expression, "I don't give a fig"? Taste this-it's so good, you'd surely keep it, too.


1 1/2 ounces coconut rum liqueur

1 ounce pineapple juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add coconut rum liqueur and juices.

 Shake.

 Pour into a rocks glass.

651. BABY ASPIRIN


You can't drink this without wanting to stay home from school and watch game shows.


1/2 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce sour mix

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce raspberry schnapps

 Pour equal parts into cocktail mixer, mix and pour into shot glass.


652. BLACK LEATHER WHIP


Crraack! Get me another, bartender.


1/4 ounce sour mix

1/4 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce Grand Marnier

1/4 ounce gold tequila

1 splash orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add sour mix, triple sec, Grand Marnier, tequila, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Pour into a rocks glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers	367

653. BLUE POLAR BEAR


What the Great White One drinks when the Coca-Cola

people aren't looking. Mmmmm....


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 1/2 ounces chilled peppermint schnapps

1 ounce crushed ice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka and peppermint schnapps.

 Shake until well-mixed.

 Add ice.

 Shake lightly.

 Strain.

 Pour into two shot glasses.

(Serves 2)


654. COCAINE SHOOTER


Consumed by good girls who want to be bad girls. For tonight, anyway.


1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 ounce coffee liqueur 1/4 ounce cream

1 splash cola

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add amaretto, Irish cream liqueur, dark cr\E8me de cacao, coffee liqueur, cream, and cola.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled rocks glass.

655. FRUITY PEBBLE


Yabba Dabba Doo-dibs on the prize!


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce blue curacao

Dash grenadine

1 ounce milk

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, curacao, grenadine, and milk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.


656. GEISHA RECIPE


Here's a good reason to emigrate.


1 part Canadian whiskey

2 parts melon liqueur

Pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Canadian whiskey and melon liqueur.

 Shake.

 Fill with pineapple juice.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
369

657. GOLDEN EYE


007 might quaff this tasty shot, careful to dodge the peanut. Beware!


1 ounce Goldschlager

1 peanut

1 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Pour Goldschlager into a cordial glass.

 Add a peanut.

 Top with Irish cream liqueur.


658. GREEN VOODOO


Come do...the voodoo...that you do...so well.


1 ounce melon liqueur

1 ounce coconut rum liqueur Splash triple sec Splash sour mix

1 ounce lemon-lime soda

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add melon liqueur, coconut rum liqueur, triple sec, sour mix, and lemon-lime soda.

 Shake.

 Strain into a two shot glasses.

(Serves 2)

659. HAWAIIAN VOLCANO


Oh great God of Liquor! Shower us with your blessings!

Make it a double!


2 ounces vodka

2 ounces Southern Comfort

2 ounces sloe gin

2 ounces Grand Marnier Splash or two of orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, Southern Comfort, sloe gin, Grand Marnier, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a four shot glasses.

(Serves 4)


660. HONEYDEWME


More wives should add this to their hubbies' chore lists.


1/2 ounce Barenjager liqueur 1/4 ounce melon liqueur 1 ounce orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Barenjager liqueur, melon liqueur, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
371

661. KINKY


Handcuffs and leather pants optional.


1/3 ounce cranberry vodka 1/3 ounce raspberry vodka 1/3 ounce peach schnapps

 Layer vodkas and peach schnapps into a shot glass.


662. MAD HATTER


If Lewis Carroll was drinking this while writing, it explains everything.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce peach schnapps

1 ounce lemonade

1 ounce cola

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, peach schnapps, lemonade, and cola.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

663. MAD SCIENTIST


It's alive, it's alive! A great one to whip up in the labora-tory for that special...specimen.


3/4 ounce blueberry schnapps 3/4 ounce raspberry schnapps Grenadine

Irish cream liqueur

 Add blueberry and raspberry schnapps to a shot glass.

 Slowly top with grenadine.

 Dribble a small amount of Irish cream liqueur on top.




664. MEXICAN STANDOFF


Fun party game: Make one shot, quickdraw for it with your nemesis.


1/3 ounce vodka

2/3 ounce gold tequila

1/3 ounce Passoa

1. Layer into a shot glass in order.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
373

665. MORANGUITO


Be enamored of any drink that combines the twin evils, er, "joys," of absinthe and tequila.


2/3 ounce absinthe

2/3 ounce tequila

1/3 ounce grenadine

1. Layer the ingredients in a shot glass.


666. RATTLESNAKE RECIPE


Truth be told, it's more scared of you than you are of it.


1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/2 ounce coffee liqueur 1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1. Carefully layer into a shot glass or test tube.

667. SANGRITA


New England and Mexico...two great tastes that taste great together.


1 ounce gold tequila

1 ounce Clamato juice

Tabasco sauce

Dash of Worcestershire sauce

 Fill one shot glass with tequila.

 Fill second shot glass with Clamato juice

 Add two drops Tabasco and Worcestershire sauce.

 Shoot the tequila.

 Chase it with the second shot.


668. SMARTY


Sweet as a mother's love.


1 ounce amaretto

1 ounce Southern Comfort

1 ounce blackberry brandy 1/2 ounce sour mix

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add amaretto, Southern Comfort, blackberry brandy, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
375

669. SOLARIS


Spicy and sweet, like a pirate with a heart of gold.


3/4 ounce spiced rum

3/4 ounce grenadine

1 teaspoon sugar

 Measure the parts so the shot glass is 2/3 full.

 Skim sugar on top.

 Stir slightly.


670. SOUTHERN BONDAGE


This one will have you tied up in knots. But in a good way.


1/4 ounce Southern Comfort 1/4 ounce amaretto

1/4 ounce peach schnapps 1/4 ounce triple sec

1 splash cranberry juice

1 splash sour mix

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort, amaretto, peach schnapps, triple sec, cranberry juice, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a rocks glass.

671. SPRINGBOK


A creamy moon beam dream.


3/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 ounce Amarula cream liqueur Dash cream

 Pour cr\E8me de menthe into a cordial glass.

 Gently layer Amarula cream liqueur.

 Add a thin layer of cream.


672. STARDUST


Surely created by a hippie mixologist inside the lime green VW van, named in honor of his soul mate.


1/2 ounce citrus vodka 1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce blue curacao 1 ounce sour mix

1 ounce pineapple juice

1 splash grenadine

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, peach schnapps, curacao, sour mix, pineapple juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into two rocks glasses.

(Serves 2)










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
377

673. THE LADY IN RED


Best ordered by a dashing, tuxedoclad gentleman, for his smoldering chanteuse.


1/2 ounce peppermint schnapps 1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce grenadine

 Pour the schnapps, vodka, and grenadine into rocks glass.

 Let stand for 30 seconds.



674. THE LIQUEURICE DREAM


An unusual concoction that shoots back but leaves a sweet aftertaste.


1/4 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1/4 ounce scotch whiskey 1/4 ounce tequila 1/4 ounce Galliano

 Pour Irish cream liqueur, scotch whiskey, tequila, and Galliano into a shot glass.

 Stir.

675. THE PERNOD DEMON


France and Switzerland banned Pernod (and true absinthe) for part of the early twentieth century, fearing its hallucinogenic effects. Bottoms up, you madmen.


1 lemon wedge

Sugar

6 dashes Tabasco sauce

1 1/2 ounces Pernod

 Coat the lemon wedge with sugar.

 Add dashes of Tabasco sauce to lemon.

 Suck the lemon.

 Shoot the Pernod.


676. TROPICAL PASSION


One might think that "passion" and "shots" are polar opposites. Think again, pal. Nothing says romance like a fruity shooter.


1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce rum 1/2 ounce sloe gin

1/2 ounce triple sec

Splash of orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add peach schnapps, rum, sloe gin, triple sec, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
379

677. YELLOW CAKE


Not the uranium, silly. The drink!


1/3 ounce vanilla vodka

1/3 ounce triple sec

1/3 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vanilla vodka, triple sec, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


678. INDULGENCE


Doesn't get much better than this. One delicious mistress.


1/3 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 1/3 ounce amaretto

1/3 ounce Amarula cream liqueur

1. Layer in above order in a shot glass.


679. VANILLA CREAM
SHOOTER


Even white boys got to shout!


1/3 ounce amaretto

1/3 ounce Amarula cream liqueur 1/3 ounce vanilla vodka


1. Layer in above order in a shot glass.

680. BANANA SPLIT


Even better than that crazy 70s kids TV show.


1/3 ounce amaretto

1/3 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao 1/3 ounce cr\E8me de banana

1. Layer in above order in a shot glass.


681. LITTLE RED TEDDY


Whether in a shot glass or a lingerie store, everyone's happy to see this little number. Rowr.


4 ounces vodka

1 ounce Chambord

1 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, Chambord, white cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into four shot glasses.

(Serves 4)

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
381

682. ORANGE CRUSH


Better than the soft drink, naturally, since it has a certain kick courtesy of Russia.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, triple sec, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


683. ZAMBODIAN


If Zambo were a country, this would be its national drink.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce blackberry brandy 1/2 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, blackberry brandy, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

684. SOUTHERN BEACH


The perfect accompaniment for a day of shell seeking and romping in the sand.


1 ounce Southern Comfort 1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/4 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 1 ounce orange juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort, peach schnapps, cr\E8me de noyaux, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


685. AQUA TIDAL WAVE


Hang ten, Spicoli. This one's for you.


1/3 ounce blue curacao

1/3 ounce vodka

1/3 ounce melon liqueur

Dash pineapple juice

Dash cranberry juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add curacao, vodka, melon liqueur, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
383

686. MEMPHIS BELLE


As reliable as the World War II B17 for which this drink is named, and much more tolerable than the film version.


3/4 ounce Southern Comfort 3/4 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Southern Comfort and Irish cream liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


687. TIE ME TO THE
BEDPOST


If your date orders this without blushing, things are going very well indeed.


1/2 ounce melon liqueur

1/2 ounce citrus vodka

1/2 ounce coconut flavored rum Splash of sour mix

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add melon liqueur, citrus vodka, coconut flavored rum, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

688. SKIP AND GO NAKED


While weary students have been operating under this phi-losophy for years, your version is much less drafty.


1 ounce gin

Dash grenadine

Splash sour mix

Splash draft beer

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add gin, grenadine, sour mix, and beer.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


689. ESKIMO KISS


Be warned: Rubbing noses over this sweet delight may melt even the sturdiest igloo.


1/2 ounce Swiss chocolate liqueur 1/2 ounce cherry brandy 1/2 ounce amaretto

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add Swiss chocolate liqueur, cherry brandy, and amaretto.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Shots and Slammers
385

690. FUNKY MONKEY


Official drink of Koko the Gorilla.


1/2 ounce peach schnapps 1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add peach schnapps, coffee liqueur, and Irish cream liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.


691. ALIEN SECRETION


Trekkies: Set phasers to yum and call the mother ship.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce melon liqueur

1/2 ounce coconut rum

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add vodka, melon liqueur, rum, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a shot glass.

 

8



VINTAGE COCKTAILS-

Gone but Not Forgotten









or every generation, there's a drink that Fraises some eyebrows. In the 1980s, it was Sex on the Beach. In the 1930s, it was Sym-phony of Moist Joy. Sometimes, a drink lives on through the decades and becomes a classic. Other times, a simply fantastic drink fades away only to be found in the yellowed pages of an antique cookbook collecting dust on your grandmother's shelf. Many cocktails were named after Holly-wood starlets and notorious rogues who drank at popular Los Angeles haunts in the heyday of silver screen glamour. Many cocktails created before the Prohibition were certainly not for the faint of heart  and  included  absinthe,  the  legendary liqueur which was later made illegal in the United States. Don't fear-absinthe substitutes remain,

but heed this warning: One common theme runs through the drinks of the first half of the twenti-eth century-heavy on the alcohol, easy on the mixer.



692. ABSINTHE COCKTAIL


Indulge, relax, and witness the magic of wicked little green fairies dancing in your glass.


1 1/2 ounces absinthe

3/4 ounce water

1/4 ounce anisette

Dash orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add absinthe, water, anisette, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


693. AMARETTO ALEXANDER


A nutty nightcap for a willing pleasure victim.


1 1/2 ounces amaretto

1 1/2 ounces cr\E8me de cacao

1 1/2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add amaretto, cr\E8me de cacao, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a brandy snifter.

 Garnish with sprinkled nutmeg.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
389

694. BLANCHE


A vintage potable for tragically flawed Southern belles.


3/4 ounce anisette

1/2 ounce Cointreau

1/2 ounce triple sec

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add anisette, Cointreau, and triple sec.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


695. BANFF


Fun Fact: With snow-capped mountains and sparkling glaciers, Banff National Park is Canada's oldest and most famous national park.


2 ounces Canadian whiskey

1 ounce Grand Marnier

1 ounce Kirsch

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, Grand Marnier, Kirsch, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.

696. WIDOW'S KISS


As mysterious and alluring as its name.


1 ounce apple brandy

3/4 ounce yellow Chartreuse 3/4 ounce Benedictine Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple brandy, yellow Chartreuse, Benedictine, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a strawberry.


697. THE LILY


A drink for those who prefer purity.


3/4 ounce dry gin

3/4 ounce cr\E8me de noyaux 3/4 ounce Lillet Blonde Dash lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de noyaux, and Lillet.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
391

698. FALLEN ANGEL


(FROM THE VENDOME CLUB IN HOLLYWOOD 1930)

Drink of choice for the good girl gone bad who tossed her shiny halo in a ditch and never looked back.


2 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 ounce lemon juice

2 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add gin, white cr\E8me de menthe, lemon juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.


699. VIOLET FIZZ


Purple: a color that symbolizes Lent. Good luck giving this one up for forty days.


1 ounce lemon juice

1/2 teaspoon sugar

1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de violette Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, sugar, gin, and cr\E8me de violette.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.

700. SOPHIA LOREN


Two of these and your inner Italian starlet shines.


1 teaspoon vermouth

1 ounce orange juice

2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce Campari

2 teaspoons Cointreau

 Pour vermouth in a tall glass.

 Swirl to coat inside of glass.

 Toss out extra vermouth.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, gin, Campari, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into the glass filled with ice.


701. NAKED LADY


Odd to begin the night with one of these rather than end it that way.


1 ounce light rum

1 ounce sweet vermouth

4 dashes apricot brandy

2 dashes grenadine

4 dashes lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, vermouth, apricot brandy, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
393

702. THE PEGU


Signature drink of Burma's Pegu Club. The club fell victim to World War II, but the drink lives on.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce Cointreau

3/4 ounce lime juice

2 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Cointreau, lime juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.



703. MAIDEN'S PRAYER COCKTAIL


Maidens always pray for a nice boy. With a nice car. And a flask handy.


1/4 teaspoon orange juice

1/4 teaspoon lemon juice

1/4 teaspoon triple sec

2 ounces dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, triple sec, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

704. JACK ROSE


Named for a mysterious chap who created an intoxicating elixir. Kudos to Jack Rose.


1 1/2 ounces apple jack or calvados

1 ounce sugar syrup

3/4 ounce lemon juice

2 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple jack (or calvados), sugar syrup, lemon juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


705. AVIATION


Enjoy while sitting on the dunes of Kitty Hawk.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce apricot brandy

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apricot brandy, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
395

706. FRISCO SOUR


The official drink of any earthquake party.


2 ounces bourbon

1/2 ounce grenadine

Juice of 1/2 lime

Juice of 1/4 lemon

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, grenadine, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sour glass.

 Fill with club soda.


707. CONTINENTAL


When you dance, you're charming, and you're gentle.

While you're up, get me another Continental.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

1/4 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, lime juice, cr\E8me de menthe, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

708. SCOFFLAW


True scofflaws drink wherever they want. Whenever they want.


1 ounce Canadian whiskey

1 ounce dry vermouth

Dash orange bitters

Dash grenadine

1/4 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, bitters, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


709. ASTORIA


Stately and classic like the hotel that bears its name.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

Dash orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an olive.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
397

710. HI HO COCKTAIL


Starlets and leading men lollygagged and indulged in these at Hollywood's Hi Ho Club. Recapture the moment.


2 ounces gin

1 ounce white port

4 dashes orange bitters

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add gin, port, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.


711. HONEYMOON COCKTAIL


(FROM THE BROWN DERBY, HOLLYWOOD CIRCA 1930)

Created in Hollywood, the town that practically invented "happily ever after."


2 ounces apple jack 1/2 ounce Benedictine 1/2 ounce orange curacao 1/2 ounce fresh lemon juice

 Fill a cocktail mixer with ice.

 Add apple jack, Benedictine, curacao, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.

712. DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS


Guaranteed to play a leading role in your night's activities.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 ounce apricot brandy

1/2 ounce lime juice

3/4 ounce egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, brandy, lime juice, and egg white.

 Shake very well.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


713. PARK AVENUE COCKTAIL


First choice of the poodle crowd.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce pineapple juice 1/4 ounce sweet vermouth 1/4 ounce orange curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, pineapple juice, vermouth, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
399

714. BEE'S KISS


This drink's slight sting is quickly masked by its sticky-sweet finish.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce honey

1/2 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, honey, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


715. FLORIDITA


A favorite of Papa Hemingway and other old men by the sea.


1 ounce lime juice

2 ounces light rum

1/4 ounce grapefruit juice

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1/2 teaspoon sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lime juice, rum, grapefruit juice, maraschino liqueur, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

716. EL DIABLO


The Mexican devil that will cha-cha on your head.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de cassis

1/2 ounce lime juice

Ginger ale

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, cr\E8me de cassis, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with lime wedge.


717. BROWN DERBY
COCKTAIL


In the 1945 cinema classic Mildred Pierce, Joan Crawford said of this Hollywood hot spot, "People have to drink somewhere. Why not here?"


1/2 ounce whiskey

1/4 ounce grapefruit juice

1/4 ounce honey

 Fill cocktail glass with ice.

 Add whiskey, grapefruit juice, and honey.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
401

718. WHEEL OF FORTUNE


Raise a glass to Lady Luck and hope she bestows a free spin on the golden wheel.


1 1/2 ounces sambuca

1 ounce brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sambuca and brandy.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.


719. WHISKEY DAISY


Oopsy Daisy! I'm drunk!


2 ounces blended whiskey 1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 1 teaspoon grenadine Juice 1/2 lemon

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, powdered sugar, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a beer mug with one ice cube.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.

720. MARLENE DIETRICH COCKTAIL


"No girly drinks for this starlet. I am, at heart," said Ms. Dietrich, "a gentleman."


3/4 wineglass of rye or Canadian whiskey 2 dashes Angostura bitters 2 dashes curacao


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, bitters, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Squeeze orange and lemon peel on top.


721. DEVIL'S TORCH


Go toward the flame...burns a little, but it's well worth the pain.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth

3 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, vermouth, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
403

722. DIXIE WHISKEY


Old times here are not forgotten. At least not until the fourth glass.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

1/2 ounce orange curacao

1/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 2 dashes Angostura bitters 3/4 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, orange curacao, white cr\E8me de menthe, bitters, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini glass.


723. EMBASSY COCKTAIL


The drink that launched a thousand treaties.


3/4 ounce brandy

3/4 ounce Cointreau

3/4 ounce Jamaican rum

1/2 ounce lime juice

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, Cointreau, rum, lime juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.

724. WHIZ BANG


Drink this, and you get a very pleasant whiz-bang feeling bouncing around in your head. Do not be alarmed.


2 ounces scotch

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

2 dashes grenadine

2 dashes Pernod

2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add scotch, vermouth, grenadine, Pernod, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.




725. SAVANNAH COCKTAIL


Drink these at midnight in the garden of good and evil.


Juice of 1 orange

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1 egg white

Dash cr\E8me de cacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange, gin, egg white, and cr\E8me de cacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a claret glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
405

726. VENDOME


The Vendome was a Los Angeles nightclub to remember. One suspects that this cocktail selection has made more than one person forget.


1 ounce red Dubonnet

1 ounce gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Dubonnet, gin, and vermouth.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.


727. STORK CLUB COCKTAIL


Opened in 1929 as an NYC speakeasy, this swanky night spot was the site of many cagey shenanigans and illicit romances. Toast it!


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce triple sec

1/4 ounce lime juice

1 ounce orange juice

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, triple sec, juices, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.

728. SOUTH COAST
COCKTAIL


A drink for any coastal tourist or those luckless enough to be landlocked.


2 1/2 ounces scotch

1/2 ounce curacao

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce sugar syrup

2 1/2 ounces club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add scotch, curacao, lemon juice, sugar syrup, and club soda.

 Stir.

 Strain into two chilled martini glasses.

 Garnish with a flame orange peel.

(Serves 2)


























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
407

729. SATAN'S WHISKERS


He keeps 'em neatly trimmed, but they still manage to tickle a bit. Especially the morning after.


1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce dry vermouth 1/2 ounce Grand Marnier 1 ounce orange juice Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, Grand Marnier, orange juice, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.


730. LOS ANGELES COCKTAIL


One sip, and you'll see why L.A. is known as the City of Angels.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

1/4 ounce sweet vermouth 1 ounce sugar syrup 1 small egg

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, sweet vermouth, sugar syrup, egg, and lemon juice.

 Shake extra well.

 Strain into a chilled port glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.

731. HONOLULU COCKTAIL


Okole Maluna! (Bottoms Up!)


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce pineapple juice 1/2 ounce orange juice 1/4 ounce lemon juice 1/4 ounce sugar syrup Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, juices, sugar syrup, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed chilled martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.


732. CHARLIE CHAPLIN


This little tramp will make your mustache wiggle.


1 1/2 ounces lime juice

1 1/2 ounces sloe gin

1 1/2 ounces apricot brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lime juice, sloe gin, and brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
409

733. CREOLE


Spicy and feisty...a drink that fights back.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

Dash Tabasco sauce

1 teaspoon lemon juice

1 1/2 ounces beef bouillon

Salt and pepper to taste

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, Tabasco sauce, lemon juice, beef bouillon, salt, and pepper.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.


734. CORONATION '37


Created to commemorate the crowning of King George VI, who became King of England after the unexpected abdica-tion of his brother, King Edward VIII. Lucky devil.


1 1/8 ounces gin

1 1/8 ounces orange curacao

1 1/8 ounces rum

1 1/8 ounces lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, curacao, rum, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

735. FLORIDA


Believe it or not, this drink has no oranges. Crazy, but good.


1 1/2 ounces grapefruit juice 3/4 ounce Galliano

1 ounce gin

1/4 ounce Campari

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grapefruit juice, Galliano, gin, and Campari.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


736. HARVARD


Drink this one and start talking like a Hah-vahd grad.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

3/4 ounce sweet vermouth Dash Angostura bitters 1 teaspoon grenadine

2 teaspoons lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, vermouth, bitters, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
411

737. MARCONI WIRELESS


Fun fact: Guglielmo Marconi first offered his radio signal invention to the Italians. They turned him down. So he moved to England where in 1898, he flashed the results of the Kingstown Regatta to a Dublin newspaper.


1 1/2 ounces apple brandy 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple brandy, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


738. METROPOLITAN


Sipped in the dark confines of sophisticated urban water-ing holes everywhere.


1 1/4 ounce brandy

1 1/4 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 teaspoon sugar syrup Dash of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, vermouth, sugar syrup, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

739. 1915


With World War I gearing up and Prohibition on its way, tavern-dwellers had precious little time to enjoy this cock-tail-but they gave it their best.


1 1/2 ounces curacao

1 1/2 ounces cream

1 1/2 ounces gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add curacao, cream, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


740. RAINBOW POUSSE CAF\C9


This rainbow comes complete with a pot o' gold.


1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce maraschino liqueur

1/4 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 ounce yellow Chartreuse 1/4 ounce curacao

1/4 ounce brandy

 Layer carefully in the above order in a pousse caf\E9 glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
413

741. BABY TITTY


Order and proceed to giggle.


2/3 ounce anisette

2/3 ounce cr\E8me de yvette 2/3 ounce whipped cream Cherry

 Layer the ingredients in the above order in a sherry glass.

 Add a cherry.



742. CHRYSANTHEMUM COCKTAIL


Fun fact: In Japanese culture, the chrysanthemum is a symbol of perfection.


1 ounce Benedictine

1 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon absinthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Benedictine, vermouth, and absinthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

743. GILROY


Not to be confused with Kilroy.


Juice of 1/4 lemon

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

3/4 ounce cherry brandy

3/4 ounce dry gin

Dash of orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, vermouth, brandy, gin, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


744. GIN & IT


It, presumably, being vermouth.


2 ounces dry gin

1 ounce sweet vermouth

 Pour gin and vermouth in a cocktail shaker.

 Stir with no ice.

 Pour into cocktail glass.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
415

745. GOLDEN GATE COCKTAIL


Cool as an October night on the bay.


1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1 scoop orange sherbet

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and sherbet.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


746. MOON RAKER


Share this with her, and you just might fly to the moon.

Careful not to burn up on re-entry.


3/4 ounce brandy

3/4 ounce red Dubonnet

3/4 ounce peach brandy

1/4 ounce pastis

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, Dubonnet, brandy, and pastis.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

747. MONKEY GLAND


Fun fact: Believe it or not, this drink is named for a late-nineteenth-century practice of transplanting simian testi-cles into impotent men. No word on whether it worked, but a Russian doctor became very rich.


3 ounces dry gin

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

2 dashes absinthe

2 dashes grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, orange juice, absinthe, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


748. RED DEVIL


"The devil is most devilish when respectable." -Elizabeth Barrett Browning


2 ounces Irish whiskey Dash Worcestershire sauce 1 1/2 ounces clam juice

1 1/2 ounces tomato juice

1/4 ounce lime juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, Worcestershire sauce, and all juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Sprinkle with pinch of pepper.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
417

749. SYMPHONY OF MOIST JOY


One really cool aspect of being a composer: getting an entire orchestra to perform in harmonious rhythm, about any subject you choose.


1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe 1/4 ounce yellow Chartreuse 1/4 ounce cognac

 Build grenadine, cr\E8me de menthe, Chartreuse, and cognac in a cordial glass.


750. LOVING CUP


Winner takes all!


6 ounces shaved ice

1 1/2 ounces passion fruit

2 ounces dry vermouth

4 ounces white rum

4 ounces champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with 6 ounces ice.

 Add passion fruit, vermouth, and rum.

 Shake.

 Fill a loving cup with ice.

 Add passion fruit mixture into the loving cup.

 Decorate with a half peach, red and green cherries, and 4 colored straws.

 Add 4 ounces champagne.

751. SIX FEET UNDER


You'd have to be six feet under to refuse another glass of this.


1 1/2 ounces Bacardi rum

1 1/2 ounces Swedish punch

1 1/2 ounces calvados

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, Swedish punch, and calavdos.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Squeeze orange peel on top.


752. HOT TODDY


Classic cure for the flu.


1 teaspoon sugar

3 whole cloves

1 cinnamon stick

1 thin lemon slice

1 ounce bourbon

4 ounces boiling water

 Put sugar, cloves, cinnamon stick, and lemon slice in a heat-resistant mug.

 Add 1 ounce boiling water.

 Stir.

 Let stand for 5 minutes.

 Add bourbon and 3 ounces boiling water.

 Stir.

 Dust with nutmeg.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
419

753. ZAZA


Made famous by the Astoria Hotel, this drink was a pop-ular Depression-era cocktail.


1 3/4 ounces gin

3/4 ounce red Dubonnet

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and Dubonnet.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


754. PRINCESS MARY


A drink for ladies who fancy the lush life.


1 1/2 ounces cr\E8me de cacao

1 1/2 ounces cream

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao, cream, and gin.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

755. ROYAL SMILE


"Grin, wave to the subjects...turn...grin, wave to the subjects..."


1 ounce apple jack

1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce lemon juice

1/2 ounce grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple jack, gin, lemon juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


756. WEDDING BELLE


A true southern belle serves this at each of her weddings.


3/4 ounce gin

3/4 ounce red Dubonnet

1/2 ounce orange juice

1/2 ounce cherry brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, Dubonnet, orange juice, and cherry brandy.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
421

757. GIGOLO COCKTAIL


The go-to drink for gigolos of all eras.


1 teaspoon honey

1 ounce cream

1 ounce parfait amour

 Pour honey and cream into a cocktail glass.

 Stir.

 Add parfait amour.

 Stir.

 Dust with freshly grated nutmeg.


758. COCONUT GROVE


(FROM 1940S HOLLYWOOD NIGHTCLUB, THE COCONUT GROVE)

Indulge in these in a private cabana. No one will know you're being naughty.


1 1/2 ounces sweet vermouth

1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouths and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple slice.

759. SARDI'S DELIGHT


Located near Broadway, this landmark NYC restaurant features walls covered with sketches of stars. The perfect drink for a well-planned Oscar party.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1/4 ounce passion fruit juice 1/4 ounce lemon juice 1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce pastis

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, juices, grenadine, pastis, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


760. MAX BAER COCKTAIL


Named for a heavyweight boxing champion with an equally famous son, Max Baer, Jr. -Jethro on The Beverly Hillbillies.


1 ounce gin

1 ounce apple brandy

1/4 ounce grenadine

1/4 ounce pastis

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apple brandy, grenadine, and pastis.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
423

761. MONTMARTRE SPECIAL COCKTAIL


A fitting tribute to the highest hill in Paris.


3 ounces Bacardi rum

1 1/2 ounces cream

Dash grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, cream, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


762. CABLEGRAM


Order up. STOP. Drink. STOP. Order another. DON'T STOP.


2 ounces blended whiskey Juice of 1/2 lemon 1/2 teaspoon sugar

4 ounces ginger ale

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, lemon juice, and sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with crushed ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.

763. CORONATION


King me!


8 ounces sherry

8 ounces vermouth

Dash maraschino liqueur

2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sherry, vermouth, maraschino liqueur, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a pint glass.


764. HUNTRESS COCKTAIL


For all modern-day Dianas, mistresses of the hunt.


3/4 ounce bourbon

3/4 ounce cherry liqueur

1 teaspoon triple sec

1 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, cherry liqueur, triple sec, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
425

765. ETHEL DUFFY


For brazen women everywhere who won't take no for an answer.


1 ounce apricot brandy

3/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, cr\E8me de menthe, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


766. PEGGY COCKTAIL


The early twentieth century song says, "Peg o' my heart, I love you, We'll never part for I love you, dear little girl, sweet little girl, sweeter than the Rose of Erin." This drink will have you echoing those sentiments.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/4 ounce pastis

1/4 ounce red Dubonnet

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, pastis, and Dubonnet.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

767. PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT COCKTAIL


Both President Roosevelts enjoyed a cocktail. This one calls for a fireside chat about world affairs.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1 ounce orange juice

Dash grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, orange juice, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


768. ROSCOE TURNER
COCKTAIL


Named for the greatest air racing pilot of the Golden Age. On your mark, get set...Jet!


1 1/2 ounces lemon juice

3 ounces gin

2 dashes of maraschino liqueur

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, gin, and maraschino liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
427

769. GINGER ROGERS


Dances gracefully across your palate.


1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

1 1/2 ounces apricot brandy

4 dashes of lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth, gin, apricot brandy, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a cherry.


770. HESITATION COCKTAIL


This will buy you a few more seconds to decide which direction to go-down the aisle or out the door.


Dash of lemon juice

1 ounce whiskey

3 ounces Swedish punch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon juice, whiskey, and Swedish punch.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

771. JOHNNY WEISMULLER


Me Tarzan. You Jane. Want drink?


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 1/2 ounces Bacardi rum

1 1/2 ounces lemon juice

Dash of grenadine

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, rum, lemon juice, grenadine, and pow-dered sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


772. JEAN HARLOW
COCKTAIL


Spencer Tracy said of her, "A square shooter if there ever was one." Raise your glass to this silent film diva.


2 ounces Bacardi rum

2 ounces sweet vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and vermouth.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
429

773. SAUCY SUE COCKTAIL


We like 'em like this. The saucier, the better.


1/2 teaspoon apricot brandy 1/2 teaspoon absinthe 2 ounces apple jack

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apricot brandy, absinthe, and apple jack.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


774. FIFTH AVENUE


Finish this one up and head to Saks.


1/3 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1/3 ounce apricot nectar

1/3 ounce cream

1. Carefully layer in a cordial glass.

775. HAVANA


Made especially for enjoying on snow white Cuban beaches.


1 1/4 ounces pineapple juice 3/4 ounce rum

1/2 teaspoon lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


776. BRANDY MILK PUNCH


Who knew you could visit the bar and build healthy teeth and bones at the same time? Does a body good!


1 teaspoon powdered sugar

2 ounces brandy

1/2 pint milk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add powdered sugar, brandy, and milk.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
431

777. FRANKENJACK
COCKTAIL


Not nearly as frightening as the name might suggest. Just don't turn your back on it.


1 ounce dry gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce apricot brandy

1 teaspoon triple sec

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, apricot brandy, and triple sec.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with triple sec.


778. HOT BUTTERED RUM


A winter classic best sipped by the fire with family and friends.


2 ounces rum

Square of butter

1 sugar cube

Water, boiling

 Place sugar cube into heat-resistant mug.

 Fill two-thirds with boiling water.

 Add butter and rum.

 Stir.

 Dust with nutmeg.

779. MERRY WIDOW
COCKTAIL


As Helen Rowland once said, "A widow is a fascinating being with the flavor of maturity, the spice of experience, the piquancy of novelty, the tang of practiced coquetry, and the halo of one man's approval." We couldn't have said it any better.


1 1/4 ounces dry gin

1 1/4 ounces dry vermouth 1/2 teaspoon Benedictine 1/2 teaspoon absinthe Dash of Orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, Benedictine, absinthe, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a lemon peel.


780. MILLION DOLLAR
COCKTAIL


If your name is Rockefeller, you get to run a tab.


1 1/2 ounces bourbon

1/2 ounce curacao

1/4 teaspoon grenadine

1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add bourbon, curacao, grenadine, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
433

781. MIKADO COCKTAIL


For intermission at the opera house.


2 ounces brandy

1/2 teaspoon cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 teaspoon curacao

2 dashes of Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, cr\E8me de cacao, curacao, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


782. MORNING GLORY FIZZ


What's the story, Morning Glory?


2 ounces scotch

1/2 teaspoon absinthe

1 egg white

1 teaspoon powdered sugar Juice of 1/2 lemon Club soda


 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add scotch, absinthe, egg white, powdered sugar, and lemon.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with club soda.

783. POLLYANNA COCKTAIL


Go ahead and order it. The glass is half full, and every-thing will work out just fine.


3 slices pineapple

3 slices orange

2 ounces dry gin

1/2 ounce sweet vermouth 1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Muddle pineapple and orange slices.

 Put mixture into a cocktail glass.

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into the cocktail glass.


784. SEVILLA COCKTAIL


A delicious delight from southern Spain.


1 ounce rum

1 ounce port

1 egg

1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, port, egg, and powdered sugar.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
435

785. UNION JACK COCKTAIL


Hail, Britannia!


1 1/2 ounces dry gin

3/4 ounce cr\E8me de yvette 1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de yvette, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


786. CHARLIE ROSE


If we ever get invited onto his talk show, we'll be sure to bring some of these to break the ice.


1 ounce brandy

Lemon slice

 Pour brandy into a pony glass.

 Add lemon slice on top.

787. FAIRY BELLE COCKTAIL


A magical, pixie-dusted place where fairy dreams come true. The drinker will float there on gossamer wings.


1 egg white

1 teaspoon grenadine

1 ounce apricot liqueur

3 ounces dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add egg white, grenadine, apricot liqueur, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


788. JUPITER COCKTAIL


This largest of the planets features one big red eye. You may end up with two.


1 teaspoon orange juice

1 teaspoon parfait amour

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 1/2 ounces dry gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, parfait amour, vermouth, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Vintage Cocktails
437

789. SABBATH CALM


Sip liberally on the day of rest.


1 ounce brandy

1 ounce coffee

1 ounce port

1 whole egg

1/2 teaspoon sugar

2 ounces cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, coffee, port, egg, and sugar.

 Add cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a goblet.

 Dash with nutmeg.


790. PANZERWAGEN


A model of German efficiency. Smooth as silk and purrs like a kitten.


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce gin

1/2 ounce Cointreau

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, gin, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Serve with side of green olives and almonds.

791. LOTUS CLUB COCKTAIL


Fun fact: Lotus flowers, native to Asia, have long symbol-ized spiritual enlightenment.


1 lump sugar

2 to 3 drops Angostura bitters Dash Pernod

2 ounces whiskey

 Muddle a lump of sugar with a few drops of bitters in cocktail shaker.

 Add a dash of Pernod and whiskey.

 Stir.

 Pour over one ice cube in an old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with lime peel.


792. TANGO


Named after the tango craze of 1915, certainly meant to make you hit the dance floor. In more ways than one.


1 1/2 ounces gin

1 1/2 ounces sweet vermouth

1 egg white

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and egg white.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

9



TEMPTING TIPPLES FOR FESTIVE FROLICS-

'Tis the Season






our friend calls and insists that you throw Ya Fourth of July party. She suggests you serve more than beer and wine this time.

The creative stakes are high but not impossible. Move beyond the traditional drinks for summer celebrations, yuletide gatherings, and even Easter events. Try a funky cocktail called The Betsy Ross for Independence Day or The Black Turncoat for a Cinco de Mayo bash. For the most romantic holi-day of the year-Valentine's Day-think outside the champagne and chocolate box. Wow your honey with a glass of Red Hot Passion or a Soul Kiss, sure to make the heart, and senses, melt. Often, traditional holidays like Christmas call for traditional drinks like eggnog and wassail, but you can add an international twist to the family feast

by introducing the German "Gluhwein." Bottoms up!




YULETIDE DRINKS

793. POINSETTIA


Unlike its namesake, this cocktail is hardly poisonous to its drinker.


2 ounces lemon-flavored vodka

8 ounces cranberry juice

Splash champagne

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and cranberry juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a martini glass.

 Splash with champagne. (Serves 2)


794. SHERRY COBBLER


Santa Claus likes for a sherry to greet him in England on Christmas Eve. Not milk.


2 ounces club soda

1 teaspoon sugar

2 1/2 ounces sherry

1/2 ounce orange juice

 Fill a double old-fashioned glass with crushed ice.

 Add club soda, sugar, sherry, and orange juice.

 Garnish with fruit.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
441

795. SNOW BUNNY


Every man hopes to find one of these on his ski weekend getaway.


1 1/2 ounces triple sec

Hot chocolate

 Pour triple sec into a heavy mug.

 Fill with hot chocolate.

 Garnish with a cinnamon stick.


796. PEPPERMINT STICK


If you've been good, maybe you'll find one of these waiting for you before bedtime on Christmas Eve.


1 ounce peppermint schnapps

1 1/2 ounces white cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add schnapps, cr\E8me de menthe, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a champagne flute.

797. ICEBALL


Avoid getting hit in the head with one of these in a snow-ball fight, but be sure to mix one up for an evening relax-ing by the fire.


1 1/2 ounces gin

3/4 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce sambuca

2 to 3 teaspoons cream

3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour gin, cr\E8me de menthe, sambuca, cream, and ice in a blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds at medium speed until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.




























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
443

798. WASSAIL


If some yells "wassail" during the holidays, the proper reply is "be in good health."


2 quarts apple cider

1/2 cup brown sugar

1 1/3 cups lemon juice

6 cinnamon sticks

12 whole cloves

12 whole allspice

1 1/2 teaspoons nutmeg

2 fifths dry sherry

 Place apple cider, brown sugar, lemon juice, and all spices in a pot.

 Bring to a boil.

 Cover and simmer for 20 minutes.

 Remove spices from mixture.

 Add sherry.

 Heat until just below boiling.

 Fill a punch bowl with boiling water.

 Let stand for one minute to heat bowl.

 Pour water out of punch bowl.

 Pour wassail mixture from stove to punch bowl.

 Garnish with orange or lemon slices studded with cloves.
(Serves 25)

799. WINTER SPARKLER


A bubbly concoction designed to lighten up any family festivity.


Juice of 1 lemon

Juice of 1 lime

8 ounces Southern Comfort

8 ounces peach schnapps

2 fifths brut champagne

3 peaches

30 whole cloves

Ice block

 Place ice in punch bowl.

 Add juices.

 Add peach schnapps and Southern Comfort.

 Stir.

 Stud peach skins with cloves and add to bowl.

 Add champagne.

 Stir gently.

(Serves 25)






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
445

800. MULLED WINE


Fun Fact: Mull is an old English word for "dust," which explains why the drink is dusted with so many spices.


3/5 red wine

Juice of one orange

1/2 teaspoon nutmeg

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon

1/2 teaspoon powdered cloves 2 tablespoons whole cloves

 Pour wine, juice of the orange, and all spices into a pot.

 Heat until warm.

 Pour into mugs.

 Add honey or brown sugar to taste.

(Serves 12-15)


801. BLIZZARD


Floridian snow birds can enjoy these frosty nips on the patio at Christmas while the rest of the country freezes.


3 ounces bourbon

1 ounce cranberry juice

1 tablespoon lemon juice

2 tablespoons sugar syrup

3 ounces crushed ice

 Pour bourbon, juices, sugar syrup, and ice into blender.

 Blend on low speed until smooth.

 Pour into a large wineglass or a highball glass.

802. CHRISTMAS CHEER


Ready? Okay! Give me an S! A! N! T! A! Go Santa!


1 gallon apple cider

8 cinnamon sticks

1 1/2 cups rum

1 cup applejack

3/4 cup apple schnapps

 Bring cider and cinnamon to a boil in a pot.

 Reduce heat and add rum, applejack, and apple schnapps.

 Stir until heated.

 Serve in pousse caf\E9 glasses.

5 .Garnish with cinnamon sticks.

(Serves 50)


803. CHRISTMAS WONDERLAND


It's a beautiful sight, we're drinking tonight...stumbling in a Christmas wonderland.


1 ounce vanilla vodka

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

1 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cr\E8me de cacao, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
447

804. SILK STOCKINGS


Mrs. Claus's preferred nightcap after Santa's big sleigh ride.


2 ounces tequila

1 ounce cr\E8me de cacao

2 ounces light cream

Dash grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, cr\E8me de cacao, cream, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Dust with cinnamon.


805. SNOWBALL


No need to cross your fingers. You do have a chance in hell of tasting one of these.


1 ounce gin

1/4 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao 1/4 ounce Pernod

1/4 ounce cr\E8me de yvette 1/4 ounce cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de cacao, Pernod, cr\E8me de yvette, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

806. GLUHWEIN


A German "glowing wine" to share with your fr\E4ulein.


5 ounces claret wine or sweet red wine

1 sugar cube

Dash Angostura bitters

Juice of 1/2 lemon

Dash cinnamon

Dash nutmeg

 Simmer all ingredients in a pot on the stove until just boiling.

 Pour into a glass coffee mug.
































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
449

807. GLOGG


A classic Scandinavian hot spiced wine punch that warms the soul at Christmas.


1 bottle full-bodied red wine 1/3 cup raisins

1/3 cup blanched almonds 5 crushed cardamom 5 whole cloves

1 cinnamon stick

1 peel of a small orange

4 ounces vodka or cognac (bartender's choice) Sugar to taste

 Mix wine, raisins, almonds, and spices in a con-tainer with a lid. Reserve a few raisins and almonds for garnish.

 Let the mixture stand in a closed container at room temperature for 24 hours.

 Before serving, heat the mixture on the stove on medium-high heat until boiling.

 Add vodka and sugar.

 Serve hot with a few raisins and blanched almonds in each cup.
(Serves 6)

808. COOL YULE MARTINI


For the hip kids who crave Rat Pack status during the hol-idays.


3 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon peppermint schnapps

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, vermouth, and peppermint schnapps.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a small candy cane.


809. STAR


I wish I may, I wish I might, have another sip of this tonight.


1 1/2 ounces apple brandy

1 1/2 ounces sweet vermouth

2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple brandy, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
451

810. PEPPERMINT PATTY


Sir, can I pour you another?


1/2 ounce peppermint schnapps 1/2 ounce dark cr\E8me de cacao 1 ounce cream

 Pour peppermint schnapps and cr\E8me de cacao into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add cream.

 Stir.


811. MISTLETOE MARTINI


Instructions: Hold over your head. Hope for the best.


1 ounce vodka

3/4 ounce melon liqueur

Dash of grenadine syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka and melon liqueur.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass rimmed with red sugar.

 Float with red grenadine.

 Garnish with a cherry.

812. EGGNOG FOR TWO


A snuggle bunny drink to share while watching the lights twinkle on the tree.


 eggs

 ounces sugar

1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1/2 ounce brandy 1/2 ounce dark rum

8 ounces heavy cream

8 ounces milk

Note: Keep all ingredients refrigerated in advance of making this drink.

 Beat the eggs and sugar until thick.

 Add vanilla and nutmeg.

 Continue to beat mixture.

 Add brandy, rum, heavy cream, and milk.

 Stir.

 Chill before serving.

 Dust with nutmeg.





















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
453

813. EGGNOG CARIBBEAN STYLE


Bring out the nog and the Christmas calypso music and watch Aunt Margo shimmy the night away.


3 eggs

1/2 cup sugar

1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 ounce light rum

8 ounces heavy cream

4 ounces milk

4 ounces of coconut milk

Note: Keep all ingredients refrigerated in advance of making this drink.

 Beat the eggs and sugar until thick.

 Add vanilla and nutmeg.

 Continue to beat mixture.

 Add rum, heavy cream, milk, and coconut milk.

 Stir.

 Chill before serving in highball glasses.

 Garnish with coconut flakes.

(Serves 2)

814. CHRISTMAS MARTINI


'Tis the season to act like Dean Martin and the gang. Baby, it's cold outside, but we've got our love to keep us warm.


3 ounces gin

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon peppermint schnapps

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and peppermint schnapps.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a candy cane.



815. SANTA CLAUS IS COMING TO TOWN


And he'll be expecting this by the fireside. Don't disappoint him.


1 1/2 ounces peppermint schnapps

1 1/2 ounces cinnamon schnapps

1 1/2 ounces melon liqueur

 Pour schnapps and melon liqueur in a chilled deep-saucer champagne glass.

 Top with whipped cream.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
455

816. CAROLING WINE


The carols sound quite different at the tenth house than they did at the first when carolers take a thermos of this along.


8 ounces water

8 ounces brown sugar

16 ounces pineapple juice

8 ounces orange juice

6 whole cloves

3 whole allspice berries

2 cinnamon sticks

Rind of 2 oranges

1/2 teaspoon salt

32 ounces red wine

 Pour water, brown sugar, pineapple juice, and orange juice in a large nonaluminum saucepan.

 Add cloves, allspice, 2 cinnamon sticks, and salt.

 Add orange rinds.

 Bring mixture to a boil.

 Reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes.

 Add wine.

 Heat to just boiling and remove from heat.

 Serve hot with a cinnamon stick for garnish. (Serves 8)

817. HOLIDAY CHEER


Good tidings to you and all of your kin.


1 bottle champagne

1 can frozen cranberry juice concentrate, thawed

 Pour champagne and cranberry juice concentrate into a punch bowl.

 Stir.

 Decorate with lime slices.

(Serves 10)


818. SIBERIAN SLEIGH RIDE


Giddy up, giddy up, let's go.


1 1/4 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce cr\E9me de cacao

1/2 ounce white cr\E9me de menthe 3 ounces light cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, cr\E8me de cacao, cr\E8me de menthe, and light cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a snifter.

 Sprinkle with chocolate shavings.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
457

819. NEW YEAR MARTINI


It's almost midnight. Hang on to this one with your right hand. Grab someone to kiss with your left.


Blue curacao

Champagne

1 ounce vodka

1 sugar cube

 Soak the sugar cube in blue curacao in a small bowl.

 Pour the champagne into a cocktail shaker.

 Let stand for 5 seconds.

 Add vodka.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled martini glass.

 Drop in the curacao-soaked sugar cube.


820. RESOLUTION MARTINI


This year I promise to behave...Another one please. It's not midnight yet.


3 ounces gin

1 ounce apricot brandy

1/2 ounce lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, apricot brandy, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

CINCO DE MAYO DRINKS

821. BLACK TURNCOAT


Tis the season to toast the treason.


2 ounces chilled tequila

Juice of 1/2 lime

Splash water

Chilled cola

2 ice cubes

 Pour chilled tequila and lime juice into a rocks glass with ice cubes.

 Add a splash of water.

 Stir.

 Top with chilled cola.

 Garnish with lime twists.


822. THE COCKROACH


La Cucaracha! Nothing says a party like flaming cock-roaches.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1 ounce coffee liqueur

 Pour tequila and coffee liqueur into an old-fashioned glass.

 Flame with a lighter.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
459

823. THE GIRAFFE


Fun fact: Giraffes have 18-inch prehensile tongues. Guard drink accordingly.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

Grapefruit juice

 Pour tequila into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Swirl.

 Fill with grapefruit juice.

 Garnish with a cherry.


824. SWEET TEQUILA


Sip slowly. Have deep thoughts.


2 ounces tequila

1 ounce Pernod

 Pour tequila and Pernod in a cocktail shaker.

 Stir.

 Pour into a brandy snifter.

825. COCKTAIL ATTACK


Take cover! When cocktails attack...Next on the Food Channel.


2 ounces tequila

1 ounce triple sec

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 lime

Crushed ice

 Pour tequila, triple sec, and vermouth into a cocktail glass.

 Squeeze in the juice from the lime.

 Add crushed ice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled champagne glass.

 Garnish a lime twist.


826. LA TUNA


Sorry Charlie. This drink is mine.


4 dashes of Angostura bitters

1 1/2 ounces tequila

1 teaspoon lime juice

Club soda

Salt

 Pour bitters, tequila, and lime juice into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Sprinkle salt on top.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
461

827. TEQUILA DRY


Ssssh. Don't tell anyone. Top secret info says super spies love to indulge in these "Mexican martinis" when looking for bad guys south of the border.


1 1/2 ounces tequila

1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1/4 ounce grenadine

2 ice cubes

 Pour the tequila, vermouth, and grenadine into a cocktail shaker.

 Stir.

 Add the two ice cubes.

 Garnish with lime or orange wheel.


828. TURBO


Grab the handle bars and buckle up. Zero to sixty in five seconds flat.


1 ounce tequila

1 ounce vodka

4 ounces tropical fruit punch

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, vodka, and fruit punch.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

829. TEQUILA FURNACE


Turn up the heat.


5 to 10 drops Tabasco sauce

1 1/2 ounces tequila

Salt

Lime wedge

 Drip Tabasco into a shot glass.

 Top with tequila.

 Consumed in the classic style: lick the salt, shoot the tequila, and suck the lime.


830. NUBE NUEVE


Cloud Nine...Up, up and away.


1 ounce tequila

1 ounce brandy

1 egg beaten

Juice of 2 limes

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, brandy, egg, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a mint sprig.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
463

831. SENORITA


A staple at Rose's Cantina consumed by many a victim of Felina's enchanting charms.


6 ounces tequila

6 ounces lime juice

4 1/2 ounces curacao

Salt

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add tequila, lime juice, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into salt-rimmed goblets. (Serves 6)


832. EL PRESIDENTE


Worthy of a head of state.


1 1/2 ounces light rum

1/2 ounce vermouth

2 dashes of grenadine

Juice of 1/2 lime

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rum, vermouth, grenadine, and lime juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

INCOME TAX DAY-APRIL 15

833. INCOME TAX


Fill out the forms. Write the check. Drink until you forget.


1 ounce gin

1 teaspoon dry vermouth

1 teaspoon sweet vermouth 1/2 ounce orange juice

2 to 3 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouths, orange juice, and bitters

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.


EARTH DAY

834. SAVE THE PLANET


You have the whole world in your glass.


1 ounce vodka

1 ounce melon liqueur

1/2 ounce blue curacao

1 to 2 dashes green Chartreuse

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, melon liqueur, blue curacao, and green Chartreuse.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
465


ST. PATRICK'S DAY

835. BLARNEY STONE
COCKTAIL


Fun Fact: Kissing the Blarney Stone gives the kisser the gift of great persuasiveness.


2 ounces Irish whiskey

1/2 teaspoon absinthe

1/2 curacao

1/4 teaspoon maraschino liqueur Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, absinthe, curacao, maraschino liqueur, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel twist and an olive.

836. ST. PATRICK'S DAY


Raise a toast to St. Patrick. Blessed is he who chases snakes out of a country.


3/4 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe 3/4 ounce green Chartreuse 3/4 ounce Irish whiskey

Dash Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de menthe, Chartreuse, whiskey, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


837. CHILLY IRISHMAN


Begorrah! Get this man a scarf.


3 ounces cold espresso

1 ounce Irish whiskey

1/2 ounce coffee liqueur

1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 1 scoop vanilla ice cream Dash sugar syrup 4 cups crushed ice


 Combine all ingredients in a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a parfait glass.

 Garnish with a three-leaf clover.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
467

838. IRISH DREAM


An iridescent vision of rainbows and lush green hills where fairies scamper.


1/2 ounce hazelnut liqueur 1/2 ounce Irish cream liqueur 3/4 ounce cr\E8me de cacao 4 ounces vanilla ice cream

 Combine all ingredients in a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a frosted pilsner glass.

 Top with whipped cream and chocolate sprinkles.



839. EVERYBODY'S IRISH COCKTAIL


At least on March 17th they are.


1 teaspoon green cr\E8me de menthe

1 teaspoon green Chartreuse

2 ounces Irish whiskey

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de menthe, Chartreuse, and whiskey.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a green olive.

840. CLOVER LEAF
COCKTAIL


I'm looking over a four-leaf clover. Oh, maybe it's my glass.


Juice of 1 lime

2 teaspoons grenadine

1 egg white

1 1/2 ounces gin

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lime, grenadine, egg white, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a mint leaf.


841. DUBLIN COCKTAIL


If you order two, is it a double Dublin?


2 ounces Irish whiskey

1 teaspoon green Chartreuse

3 dashes green cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, Chartreuse, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an olive.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
469

842. EMERALD ISLE COCKTAIL


As William Drennan said in 1795, "Nor one feeling of vengeance presume to defile/The cause, or the men, of the Emerald Isle."


2 ounces dry gin

1 teaspoon green cr\E8me de menthe

3 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add dry gin, cr\E8me de menthe, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


843. GREEN FIZZ


Pink hearts, yellow moons, orange stars...green fizz.


2 ounces dry gin

1 teaspoon green cr\E8me de menthe 1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 egg white

Juice of 1/2 lemon

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de menthe, powdered sugar, egg white, and lemon.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with club soda.

844. GREEN ROOM COCKTAIL


Where leprechauns wait before their Tonight Show appearance.


3/4 ounce brandy

1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth 1/2 teaspoon curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, dry vermouth, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


845. SHAMROCK COCKTAIL


The man who has luck in the morning has luck in the afternoon. And a shamrock never hurts either.


1 1/2 ounces Irish whiskey 1/2 ounce dry vermouth

1 teaspoon green cr\E8me de menthe

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, and cr\E8me de menthe.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an olive.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
471

846. GREEN SWIZZLE


Here's to the old lady up on the hill. If she won't drink it, oh, well-I will!


2 ounces dry gin

2 dashes Angostura bitters

1 tablespoon green cr\E8me de menthe

1 teaspoon powdered sugar Juice of 1 lime Club soda


 Pour gin, bitters, cr\E8me de menthe, powdered sugar, and lime in a collins glass with shaved ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with club soda.

 Stir again.


847. LEPRECHAUN


Magically delicious, so sayeth one lucky pixie.


2 ounces Irish whiskey

Tonic water

 Pour whiskey in an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Fill with tonic water.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.

848. LEPRECHAUN LIBATION


A popular favorite in leprechaun haunts all over Erin.


1 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe

2 1/2 ounces Irish whiskey

3 1/2 ounces ice

 Pour cr\E8me de menthe, whiskey, and ice into a blender.

 Blend.

 Pour into a goblet or large wine glass.


849. PADDY COCKTAIL


As my uncle Paddy once said, "May the enemies of Ireland never meet a friend."


1 1/2 ounces Irish whiskey 3/4 ounce sweet vermouth 3 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
473

850. EMERALD ISLE COOLER


May the leprechauns be near you to spread luck along your way.


3 scoops vanilla ice cream

1 ounce green cr\E8me de menthe

1 ounce Irish whiskey

1 ounce club soda

 Pour vanilla ice cream, green cr\E8me de menthe, and Irish whiskey into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a chilled highball glass.

 Add club soda.

 Stir gently.


851. TOP OF THE MORNING


A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures for all that ails you. Along with this drink.


1 ounce brandy

1/2 ounce apple brandy 1/2 ounce sweet vermouth Dash of lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandies, vermouth, and lemon juice.

 Stir well from bottom.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Serve with one olive.

852. LITTLE GREEN FAIRY


Tinkerbell's tipple of choice.


2 ounces green Chartreuse

2 ounces Benedictine

1/5 bottle white dinner wine 2 ounces blue curacao

2 ounces cherry brandy 2/5 bottle brut champagne

 Pour Chartreuse, Benedictine, wine, curacao, and brandy in a pitcher.

 Stir and chill.

 When ready to serve, pour into a champagne bowl.

 Add champagne.

(Serves 25)


853. GREEN FIRE


The burning ring of green fire. It's caused many a good Irishman to chase the rainbow.


1 1/2 ounces gin

2 teaspoons green cr\E8me de menthe

2 teaspoons kummel

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cr\E8me de menthe, and kummel.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Add ice.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
475


FOURTH OF JULY

854. AMERICAN FLAG


When mixed properly, these colors don't run.


1/2 ounce grenadine

1/2 ounce cream

1/2 ounce blue curacao

 Layer in above order carefully in pousse caf\E9 glass or a pony.


855. LIBERTY COCKTAIL


Take this cocktail to your tired, poor, huddled masses.


1 1/2 ounces apple brandy

3/4 ounce light rum

1/4 teaspoon sugar syrup

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple brandy, rum, and sugar syrup.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

856. FIREWORKS


Toss one back and prepare to witness mental pyrotechnics. Kaboom!


1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce light rum

1/2 ounce tequila

3 ounces pineapple juice

1 ounce cream of coconut

2 teaspoons milk

1 drop grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, rum, tequila, pineapple juice, cream of coconut, milk, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass half filled with ice.

5 Garnish with a cherry.


857. BETSY ROSS


Fun Fact: Betsy Ross was excommunicated by the Quak-ers. Maybe because she enjoyed too much brandy.


1 1/2 ounces brandy

1 1/2 ounces port

2 dashes Angostura bitters

2 dashes blue curacao

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add brandy, port, bitters, and blue curacao.

 Stir.

 Strain into a brandy snifter.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
477

858. YANKEE DOODLE
COCKTAIL


One word: Dandy.


1 3/4 ounces gin

1/4 ounce cream

1/4 ounce lemon juice

1/4 ounce cr\E8me de yvette

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cream, lemon juice, and cr\E8me de Yvette.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.



859. AMERICAN GLORY HIGHBALL


Keep your eye on the grand old flag. Hard to do after an afternoon of these.


1 1/2 ounces champagne

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

Club soda

 Pour champagne and orange juice into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with club soda.

860. STARS AND STRIPES POUSSE CAFE


Every heart beats true for this red, white, and blue.


2/3 ounce grenadine

2/3 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 2/3 ounce cr\E8me de yvette

 Layer carefully in above order in a pousse caf\E9 glass.


VALENTINE'S DAY

861. THE KISS


Sweet as your first.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

1/2 ounce chocolate liqueur 1/4 ounce cherry liqueur 3/4 ounce heavy cream

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, liqueurs, and cream.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
479

862. HANKY PANKY
COCKTAIL


Too little hanky panky can leave your mate very cranky.


1 3/4 ounces gin

3/4 ounce sweet vermouth 1/4 ounce Fernet Branca

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, and Fernet Branca.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with an orange peel.


863. RED HOT PASSION


A sure-fire recipe for afternoon delight.


1/2 ounce bourbon

1/2 ounce amaretto

1/2 ounce Southern Comfort 1/4 ounce sloe gin Splash triple sec

Splash orange juice

Splash pineapple juice

 Pour all ingredients over ice into a hurricane glass.

 Stir gently.

 Garnish with an orange slice.

864. KISS IN THE DARK


A nice way to end the day. Or begin the night.


3/4 ounce gin

3/4 ounce cherry brandy

1/4 ounce dry vermouth

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cherry brandy, and vermouth.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


865. SWEETIE BABY


Serve with a side of candy hearts and say "I love you."


2 ounces amaretto

5 ounces vanilla ice cream 1/2 ounce milk (optional)

 Pour amaretto, ice cream, and milk into a blender.

 Blend at medium speed until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet.

 Garnish with crushed almonds.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
481

866. SOUL KISS


The best way to kiss your soul mate.


1 ounce whiskey

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce Dubonnet

3/4 ounce orange juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add whiskey, vermouth, Dubonnet, and orange juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass with ice.



867. CHOCOLATE COFFEE KISS


The consummate accent to a snowy Valentine's Day spent watching An Affair to Remember.


3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

3/4 ounce Irish cream liqueur Splash cr\E8me de cacao Splash Grand Marnier

1 1/2 ounces chocolate syrup Hot coffee

 Pour liqueurs into an Irish coffee glass.

 Add chocolate syrup.

 Fill with coffee.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with shaved chocolate and a cherry.

868. HOT KISS


 Cummings said it best: "Kisses are a better fate than wisdom."


1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de menthe 1 ounce Irish whiskey

1/2 ounce white cr\E8me de cacao 6 ounces hot coffee

 Pour liqueurs and whiskey into an Irish coffee glass.

 Add coffee.

 Stir.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with a chocolate-covered mint.



869. LOVER'S DELIGHT COCKTAIL


Sky rockets in flight...


1/2 ounce dry gin

1 teaspoon orange sherbet

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin and orange sherbet.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
483

870. CUPID'S COCKTAIL


Draw back bow. Aim arrow at lover. Release.


1 1/2 ounces sherry

1 egg

1 teaspoon powdered sugar Dash of cayenne pepper

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add sherry, egg, powdered sugar, and pepper.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


871. AMOROUS DUO


Antony and Cleopatra. Romeo and Juliet. Tracy and Hep-burn. Are you next?


1 ounce raspberry schnapps 1/4 ounce amaretto

1 scoop vanilla ice cream

2 ounces crushed ice

 Pour raspberry schnapps, amaretto, vanilla ice cream, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a brandy snifter.

872. GODDESS OF LOVE COCKTAIL


Aphrodite's favorite concoction for lovers in love.


1 3/4 ounces pastis

3/4 ounce anisette

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pastis and anisette.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


873. KISS ME QUICK


Before I change my mind.


2 ounces Pernod

2 dashes Angostura bitters

1 teaspoon Cointreau

1 ounce club soda

 Add Pernod, bitters, and Cointreau to an old-fash-ioned glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Top with club soda.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
485

874. PINK ROSE FIZZ


Drink this rose and think sweet thoughts.


Juice of 1/2 lemon

1 teaspoon powdered sugar

1 egg white

1/2 teaspoon grenadine

2 teaspoons cream

2 ounces dry gin

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon, powdered sugar, egg white, grena-dine, cream, and gin.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with club soda.


875. WILD FLING


Everybody should have at least one in their lifetime.


1 1/2 ounces wilderberry schnapps

4 ounces pineapple juice

Splash cranberry juice

 Pour schnapps in a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with pineapple juice.

 Splash with cranberry juice.

 Stir.

HALLOWEEN

876. FRANKENSTEIN
COCKTAIL


Don't be surprised if the villagers chase you around with torches.


1 ounce dry gin

1 ounce dry vermouth

1/2 ounce apricot liqueur

1/2 ounce Cointreau

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, apricot liqueur, and Cointreau.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


877. RED DEVIL


Keeper of the "spirits" of the dead.


1/2 ounce sloe gin

1/2 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce Southern Comfort 1/2 ounce triple sec

1/2 ounce banana liqueur

2 tablespoon Rose's lime juice

2 ounces orange juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vodka, Southern Comfort, triple sec, banana liqueur, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
487

878. BLACK MAGIC


Only devil women with evil on their minds partake in this libation.


1 1/2 ounces vodka

3/4 ounce coffee liqueur

1 to 2 dashes lemon juice

 Pour vodka, coffee liqueur, and lemon juice into an old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.


879. INCANTATIONS


Take a lesson from the witches of Macbeth. Double, double toil and trouble. Fire burn and cauldron bubble. Repeat as needed.


1 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce green curacao

2 ounces lemonade

2 to 3 drops grenadine

3 ounces ice

 Add vodka, curacao, and lemonade in a blender with ice.

 Blend until slushy.

 Pour into extra large martini glass or goblet.

 Drip grenadine over glass.

 Garnish with sugar-coated lime wedge.

880. BLACK WITCH


She's no Glenda the Good Witch.


1 1/2 ounces gold rum

1/4 ounce dark rum

1/4 ounce apricot brandy

1/2 ounce pineapple juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add rums, apricot brandy, and pineapple juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


881. CAT'S EYE


Fun fact: Legend has it that when you see a one-eyed cat, you should spit on your thumb, stamp it in the palm of your hand, make a wish, and it will come true. What can it hurt?


2 ounces dry vermouth

1/2 ounce yellow Chartreuse 2 dashes orange bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth, Chartreuse, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
489

882. HEADLESS HORSEMAN


Throw back a few of these while you still have a noggin.


2 ounces vodka

3 dashes Angostura bitters Ginger ale

 Pour vodka and bitters into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Stir.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


883. VAMPIRE'S DELIGHT


Dracula enjoys these for a change of pace. Love at first bite, indeed.


2 ounces rum

 banana

 scoops vanilla ice cream Grenadine

 Place banana, rum, and ice cream in blender.

 Blend on low for about 15 seconds until smooth.

 Swirl grenadine into two champagne flutes until it coats the inside of the glasses.

 Add banana mixture.

 Serve with cherry.

884. BLACK WIDOW


Less deadly than the spider's venom. At least in small doses.


1/2 ounce strawberry liqueur 1/2 ounce sambuca 1/2 ounce cream

1. Layer in above order in a shot glass.


885. WITCH'S BREW


The popular year-around drink in Salem. Bottoms up, Esmeralda.


2 ounces Strega

1/2 ounce cr\E8me de menthe 1 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce orange juice

Pernod

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Strega, cr\E8me de menthe, and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass with shaved ice.

 Float three or four drops Pernod.

 Decorate with fresh mint.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
491

886. DEMON POSSESSION


This one may make your head spin.


1 ounce citrus vodka

1 ounce light rum

1/4 ounce blue curacao

Lemonade

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vodka, rum, and curacao.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with lemonade.

 Garnish with a cherry.


887. SKELETON


Drink in place of barium for your next X-ray.


1/2 ounce white rum

1/2 ounce sour apple vodka Lemon-lime soda

 Pour rum and vodka into an old-fashioned glass filled with crushed ice.

 Top off with soda.

888. GREEN GHOST


Yellow and Blue makes Green.


1 ounce blue curacao

1 ounce gin

1/2 ounce peach schnapps 2 ounces lemonade Squeeze of an orange wedge

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add curacao, gin, peach schnapps, lemonade, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a hurricane glass with ice.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


ELECTION DAY

889. VICTORY


Drink early and often while you wait for the results to come in.


1 1/2 ounces Pernod

3/4 ounce grenadine

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Pernod and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass filled with ice.

 Fill with club soda.






 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
493

890. WASHINGTON


Barry Goldwater said it perfectly: "If everybody in this town connected with politics had to leave town because of chas-ing women and drinking, you would have no government."


1 1/2 ounces dry vermouth 3/4 ounce brandy

2 dashes sugar syrup

2 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add vermouth, brandy, sugar syrup, and bitters.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.



THANKSGIVING

891. THANKSGIVING SPECIAL


Your Turkey Day guests will "gobble" these down.


3/4 ounce apricot liqueur

3/4 ounce dry gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/4 teaspoon lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apricot liqueur, gin, vermouth, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Serve with a cherry.

MARDI GRAS

892. NEW ORLEANS FIZZ


Get your krewe together and have your own parade.


2 ounces gin

1/2 ounce cream

Dash of orange flower water 1/4 to 3/4 ounce sugar syrup 1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar 1 egg white

1 ounce lemon juice

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, cream, orange flower water, sugar syrup, powdered sugar, egg white, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass over ice.

 Top with club soda.






















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Tempting Tipples for Festive Frolics
495

893. NEW ORLEANS NIGHT


Let the good times roulez!


3/4 ounce vodka

1/2 ounce praline liqueur

2 ounces cream of coconut

1 ounce heavy cream

8 ounces crushed ice

 Pour vodka, praline liqueur, cream of coconut, heavy cream, and ice in a blender.

 Blend until smooth on low speed.

 Pour into a wine glass.

 Garnish with whipped cream.


EASTER

894. EASTER BUNNY


Here comes Peter Cottontail...invite him in for a drink!


1 1/2 ounces dark cr\E8me de cacao 1/2 ounce vodka

1 teaspoon chocolate syrup

1 teaspoon cherry brandy

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add cr\E8me de cacao and vodka.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Float chocolate syrup and brandy.

895. JACK RABBIT


Fun fact: Both Bugs Bunny and Brer Rabbit are North American jackrabbits.


3/4 ounce dry gin

3/4 ounce dry vermouth

1/4 ounce apricot nectar liqueur 1/4 ounce triple sec

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add gin, vermouth, apricot nectar liqueur, and triple sec.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

10



VIRGIN JACKS AND JILLS-

For the Sober One in All of Us






sssst. Hey you. Yeah, I'm talking to you. PWho am I? Well, I'm your weary liver. I'm here to win friends and influence...your drinking habits. Sometimes, you just have to slow down on all the crazy concoctions out there, bro. Rest up, and drink some juices and club soda. It's really okay to be over twenty-one and ask for a Shirley Temple. Say it with me, "Shirley Temple." Non-alcoholic drinks aren't half bad. Give them a

try. I'll thank you in the morning.

896. BEACH BLANKET BINGO


Annette and Frankie do the watusi. Everybody kick up some sand!


One part cranberry juice

One part grapefruit juice

Splash of soda

 Pour juices in a collins glass with ice.

 Top with soda.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


897. PINK LASSIE


This one will make even the worst wayward pup come home.


1 scoop of vanilla ice cream

2 ounces cranberry juice

2 ounces pineapple juice

1 ounce sugar syrup

Splash of club soda

 Blend vanilla ice cream, juices, sugar syrup, and club soda.

 Pour into a champagne flute.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
499

898. A.S. MACPHERSON


Sweet and tangy. A less-than-potent potable for camp counselors everywhere.


3 ounces orange juice

3 ounces club soda

Splash sour mix

2 dashes Angostura bitters

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, club soda, sour mix, and bitters.

 Shake.

 Strain into a collins glass.

 Garnish with a small American flag.


899. BITTERS HIGHBALL


A long cool drink of fizz.


3/4 ounce Angostura bitters Club soda or ginger ale

 Pour bitters into a highball glass.

 Fill with soda or ginger ale.

 Garnish with a lime twist.

900. CARDINAL PUNCHLESS


Even Father Flanigan would approve.


6 ounces cranberry juice

6 ounces ginger ale

Splash orange juice

Dash lemon juice

Dash sugar syrup

 Pour cranberry juice and ginger ale into a collins glass with ice.

 Splash with orange juice.

 Add dashes of lemon juice and syrup.


901. DOWN EAST DELIGHT


A juicy cocktail perfect for a tween sleepover. Get out the Hilary Duff videos!


One part cranberry juice

One part pineapple juice

One part orange juice

Dash sugar syrup

 Pour juices into a collins glass with ice.

 Add dash sugar syrup.

 Garnish with a cherry.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
501

902. GRENADINE RICKEY


Rum and Gin Rickey's virgin sister. Really she is.


1 1/2 ounces grenadine

1 1/2 ounces lime juice

Club soda

 Combine grenadine and lime juice in a highball glass with ice.

 Add soda.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


903. I'LL FAKE MANHATTAN


For those who dare to face big city life sober.


1 1/2 ounces cranberry juice

1 1/2 ounces orange juice

2 dashes orange bitters

Dash grenadine

Dash lemon juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, bitters, grenadine, and lemon juice.

 Stir.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

904. MARGARITA


Serve these up at your next block party. No permit needed.


2 ounces sour mix

Splash lime juice

Splash orange juice

Salt

 Pour sour mix and juices into a blender with ice.

 Blend until smooth.

 Serve in a salt-rimmed margarita glass.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


905. MISSIONARY


Drink this while trying to convert the locals.


2 ounces pineapple juice

1 ounce sugar syrup

1 ounce sour mix

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add pineapple juice, sugar syrup, and sour mix.

 Stir.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
503

906. MONTEGO BAY


Hey, mon, drink as much as you like.


2 ounces orange juice

2 ounces sour mix

Splash grenadine

Splash club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, sour mix, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Top with club soda.

 Garnish with a cherry.


907. ORANGEADE


Time for all good drinks to come to the "ade" of their mixer.


One part orange juice

One part soda

Splash sugar syrup

 Pour juice and soda into a highball glass with ice.

 Add splash sugar syrup.

 Garnish with an orange slice.

908. PAC MAN


The drink of choice for video game addicts who want to keep their edge over Inky, Blinky, and the gang.


Dash bitters

Dash grenadine

Splash lemon juice

Ginger ale

 Add bitters, grenadine, and lemon juice in a high-ball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


909. PI\D1A COLADA


A great drink for prom night or the grad party.


1 ounce pineapple juice

3 or 4 pineapple chunks

1 ounce cream of coconut

1 teaspoon orange juice

1 tablespoon cream

3 ounces ice

 Add pineapple juice, pineapple chunks, cream of coconut, orange juice, cream, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a goblet or large wine glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple wedge and cherry.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
505

910. PONY'S NECK


The G-rated version of a Horse's Neck.


Dash lime juice

2 dashes Angostura bitters Ginger ale

 Pour lime juice and bitters into a collins glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with a spiraled lemon peel and a cherry.


911. ROSY PIPPIN


Looking for complete fulfillment like Pippin? Here it is.


4 ounces apple juice

Splash grenadine

Splash sour mix

Ginger ale

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add apple juice, grenadine, and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with an apple slice.

912. ROY ROGERS


Happy Trails-No Hangovers.


Cola soda

Splash grenadine

 Fill a highball glass with ice.

 Add soda.

 Splash with grenadine.

2. Garnish with a flag.


913. SAGINAW SNOOZE


A sweet warm send-off to never-never land.


3 ounces apple juice

3 ounces cranberry juice

1 teaspoon honey

 Pour juices into a large heat-resistant mug.

 Heat for 1 minute in microwave.

 Stir in honey.

 Garnish with a lemon slice and a cinnamon stick.

















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
507

914. SAN FRANCISCO


Take this one with you on the cable cars. No brown paper bag necessary.


One part pineapple juice

One part orange juice

One part grapefruit juice

One part sour mix

2 dashes grenadine

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices, sour mix, and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a goblet.

 Top with soda.


915. SONOMA NOUVEAU


Taste the wine country while you drive up the coast.


5 ounces alcohol-free white wine

Club soda

Cranberry juice

 Pour wine in a highball glass with ice.

 Splash soda until glass is almost full.

 Float cranberry juice.

 Garnish with a lime twist.

916. STRAWBERRY COLADA


A sweet twist on the classic for long, sultry summer nights.


2 ounces fresh or frozen strawberries

1 ounce cream of coconut

2 ounces pineapple juice

2 ounces crushed ice

 Pour strawberries, cream of coconut, pineapple juice, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth on medium speed for about 15 seconds.

 Serve in a hurricane glass.

5. Garnish with strawberries and a pineapple chunk.


917. STRAWBERRY DAIQUIRI


Hemingway would not approve. But your mother would.


3 ounces fresh or frozen strawberries

Splash sour mix

Dash grenadine

2 ounces ice

 Pour strawberries, sour mix, grenadine, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth on medium speed for about 15 seconds.

 Serve in a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with strawberries.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
509

918. SUNSET COOLER


Make a pitcher in the RV. Pull over and watch the sun fade over the horizon.


4 ounces cranberry juice

2 1/2 ounces orange juice

Splash lemon juice

Splash ginger ale

3 ounces ice

 Add juices with ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth on low speed.

 Pour into a hurricane glass.

 Top with ginger ale.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


919. TOMATO COOLER


Gym rats can't get enough of these thirst quenchers.


7 ounces chilled tomato juice Splash lemon juice Tonic water


 Pour juices into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with tonic water.

 Garnish with a lemon wedge and a celery stalk.

920. TRANSFUSION


No needle required, so even the squeamish can enjoy this one.


3 ounces grape juice

6 ounces ginger ale

Splash lime juice

 Combine grape juice and ginger ale in a collins glass with ice.

 Splash with lime juice.

 Garnish with a lime wedge


921. VIRGIN MARY


Ave Maria! This one is tasty.


6 ounces tomato juice

Dash Worcestershire sauce

Dash Tabasco sauce

Dash salt

Dash pepper

Celery salt to taste

 Pour juice into a tall glass or beer mug with ice.

 Add Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce, salt, pepper, and celery salt.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a celery stalk and lime wedge.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
511

922. HAWAIIAN PI\D1A


Quench your thirst but keep your balance while hanging ten.


2 1/2 ounces pineapple juice

1 teaspoon coconut cream

1 scoop vanilla ice cream

10 drops blue curacao

 Pour juice, coconut cream, vanilla ice cream, and curacao into a cocktail shaker.

 Mix.

 Pour into a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with a pineapple slice.


923. UN-FUNKY MONKEY


A birthday party treat for your little monkey and his chimp-a-riffic friends.


1/2 ounce strawberry crush soda 2 1/2 ounces orange juice 1 sliced banana

1 teaspoon honey

 Pour strawberry soda, orange juice, banana, and honey into a blender.

 Blend on low until thick and a smooth pink color.

 Pour into a hurricane glass.

 Garnish with a banana slice.

924. FIVE ALIVE


Hey Sleepyhead, awaken your five senses!


1 ounce chilled ginger ale

Orange juice

Club soda

Chilled lemon-lime soda

5 to 6 drops grenadine

 Pour ginger ale into a pilsner glass.

 Add one ice cube.

 Pour orange juice until glass is half full.

 Add equal amounts of club and lemon-lime soda.

 Add grenadine syrup.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


925. PEACHY SUNSET


As keen as they come.


1 ounce chilled peach crush Juice from three lime wedges Lemonade

3-5 drops grenadine syrup

 Pour the peach crush into an old-fashioned glass.

 Add one ice cube and lime juice.

 Fill with lemonade.

 Add grenadine.

 Garnish with a cherry.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
513

926. LOVE POTION #13


A teenage witch favorite for good witches only.


1/2 ounce khus syrup

1 ounce chilled, shaken pineapple juice

Club soda

Lime wedge

 Pour the khus syrup into an old-fashioned glass.

 Add one ice cube.

 Pour in pineapple juice.

 Add club soda slowly.

 Drop lime wedge.

 Decorate with a pineapple slice.


927. ICY BLUSH


The perfect gift for rosy-cheeked lasses on their sweet sixteenth.


1 ounce strawberry crush

Lemon-lime soda

1 ice cube

Juice from 1/2 lime

 Pour strawberry crush in an old-fashioned glass.

 Top with lemon-lime soda

 Add lime juice.

 Garnish with lime slice.

928. BAMBINO BELLINI


For toasting the arrival of newborns. Mix one up for the mom-to-be at her baby shower.


2 ounces peach nectar

1 ounce lemon juice

Chilled sparkling cider

 Pour the peach nectar and lemon juice into a chilled champagne flute.

 Stir.

 Fill with cider.

 Stir gently.


929. STARRY STARRY NIGHT


A jug of this, a telescope, and you.


4 ounces papaya juice

2 ounces pineapple juice

4 ounces ginger ale

Sugar

 Pour juices and ginger ale into a sugar-rimmed tall glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with star fruit.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
515

930. METROPOLIS


The Daily Planet's deadline drink. Even Clark Kent gets thirsty sometimes.


2 ounces raspberry syrup

2 cups lemonade

 Fill 24-ounce cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add raspberry syrup and lemonade.

 Shake.

 Strain into martini glasses.

 Garnish with lemon twists.

(Serves 6)


931. MAI TAI MOCKTAIL


Mmmm. Mai Tai have another?


1 ounce vanilla syrup

1/2 ounce almond syrup

3 ounces orange juice

2 ounces cranberry juice

 Pour syrups and juices into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.

932. VIRGIN LEMON DROP


Give the sourpusses a taste of their own medicine.


1 1/4 ounces lemon syrup

2 1/2 ounces club soda

1/4 ounce lemon juice

Sugar

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add lemon syrup, club soda, and lemon juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a sugar-rimmed martini glass.

 Garnish with a lemon twist.


933. MOONLIGHT COCKTAIL


Bring these along for a night of stargazing.


6 ounces grapefruit juice

Dash grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grapefruit juice and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Pour into an old-fashioned glass.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
517

934. BLACKBERRY LEMON FUSION


Dr. Oppenheimer would be proud.


1 ounce blackberry syrup

Juice of 1 lemon

Cold club soda

 Combine blackberry syrup and lemon in a tall glass.

 Add ice.

 Fill with club soda.



935. RASPBERRY LEMON FUSION


An explosion of flavor with none of the fallout.


1 ounce raspberry syrup

Juice of 1 lemon

Cold club soda

 Combine raspberry syrup and lemon in a tall glass.

 Add ice.

 Fill with club soda.

936. SANGREETA


Greet your guests with a goblet of this little number.


1 1/2 tablespoons grenadine

2 tablespoons lime juice

12 ounces orange juice

Tabasco sauce to taste

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grenadine, lime juice, orange juice, and Tabasco sauce.

 Shake.

 Strain into a goblet.

 Garnish with lime wedges.


937. AFTERGLOW


A peaceful, easy feeling.


1 ounce grenadine

4 ounces orange juice

4 ounces pineapple juice


 Pour grenadine and juices into a cocktail shaker.

 Mix.

 Pour into a highball glass with ice.

 Garnish with a pineapple chunk.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
519

938. BATMAN


Holy Mocktails, Batman! Make mine a double!


6 ounces orange juice

1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Pour the juice and grenadine into a tall glass almost filled with ice cubes.

 Stir well.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


939. LEMON FIN


Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water...it is!


Club soda

2 to 3 teaspoons powdered sugar

1 ounce lemon juice

 Fill a highball glass halfway with ice.

 Pour club soda stopping an inch from the top.

 Add powdered sugar and lemon juice.

 Stir well.

 Garnish with lemon slice.

940. TEMPERANCE TANTRUM


Serve these at the next meeting of the Anti-Saloon League.


3 ounces cranberry juice

2 ounces orange juice

Squeeze lemon

Ginger ale

2 ounces ice

 Pour juices in a blender with ice.

 Blend until smooth.

 Top with the ginger ale.

 Garnish with a red chili pepper.


941. BIG PANTS


Having a pity party because your date laughed at your oversized bloomers? This one will drive you to the edge of reason.


One part orange juice

One part mango juice

Ginger ale

Dash grenadine

 Pour equal parts orange and mango juices into a highball glass with crushed ice.

 Top with ginger ale.

 Add grenadine.

 Garnish with a slice of lime or a cherry.








 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
521

942. MISTER DARCY


Best consumed while wearing a hideous holiday jumper.


4 ounces orange juice

1 peach or nectarine

Dash grenadine

3 ounces ice

 Pour juice, fruit, and grenadine in a blender with ice.

 Blend until smooth.


943. STARFRUIT SPRITZER


Mix these up and win the approval of your teetotaling future mother-in-law.


3 ounces mango juice

3 ounces peach juice

Club soda

 Fill a cocktail glass with crushed ice.

 Add juices.

 Top with club soda.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a star fruit.

944. DIXIE'S RAINBOW COOLER


The first choice for Southern belles who must be on their best behavior.


2 ounces orange juice

2 ounces pineapple juice

2 ounces passion fruit juice 1/4 ounce lemon juice

1 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into highball glass filled with ice.

 Garnish with fresh kiwi.


945. ENGLISH AFTERNOON


Ideal take away for your journey down the Thames.


4 ounces iced tea

4 ounces raspberry juice

 Fill a tall glass with ice.

 Add iced tea and raspberry juice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with fresh lemon and raspberries.











 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
523

946. CHERRY ALE


Like a night at the drive-in, but no need to strap on the roller skates.


2 ounces cherry juice

1 ounce lime juice

Ginger ale

 Fill a juice glass with ice.

 Add cherry and lime juices.

 Top with ginger ale.

 Garnish with a lime wheel or cherries.



947. VIENNA COLD NIGHT SOOTHER


Like a pleasant stroll along the Danube. Freud would be envious.


4 ounces cold strong coffee

2 ounces cream

1/4 ounce chocolate syrup

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add coffee, cream, chocolate syrup, and cinnamon.

 Shake.

 Strain into a tumbler.

 Top with whipped cream and shaved chocolate.

948. SUPPER SIPPER


Give this to Dad while he's slaving over the grill. He may raise your allowance.


3 ounces grape juice

3 ounces lemonade

Sparkling water

 Pour grape juice and lemonade into a goblet with ice.

 Top with sparkling water.

 Garnish with a lemon wheel.


949. BERRY HAPPY


A berry frothy treat for those who have been berry good to you.


2 scoops vanilla ice cream

2 ounces fresh blueberries

2 ounces fresh raspberries

2 ounces strawberries

1/2 cup milk

 Put vanilla ice cream, blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, and milk in a blender.

 Blend thoroughly.

 Pour into a tumbler or a large cocktail glass.

 Top with fresh berries.










 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
525

950. CAESAR JR.


A drink for all up-and-coming conquerors.


1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1/4 teaspoon Tabasco to taste Juice of 1/4 lime

1/2 teaspoon grated horseradish Clamato juice

 Fill a celery-salted rimmed double old-fashioned glass with ice.

 Add Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco, lime juice, and horseradish.

 Top with Clamato juice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a celery stalk and a cherry tomato.



951. SOFT BUCKET OF BUNNIES


Don't you just want to dive in?


1/2 ounce grenadine

3 ounces milk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grenadine and milk.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.

 Top with whipped cream.

952. PUSSY FOOT


Guaranteed to make you land on your feet.


1/3 ounce grenadine

1 1/3 ounces pineapple juice

1 1/3 ounces orange juice

1 1/3 ounces grapefruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add grenadine and juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into cocktail glass.


953. ORANGE JULIA


Orange juice: It's not just for breakfast anyone.


2 cups milk

1 can unsweetened orange juice concentrate

1 teaspoon vanilla

10 crushed ice cubes

 Pour all ingredients into a blender.

 Blend on medium speed for 30 seconds.

 Pour into champagne tulips.

(Serves 5)













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
527

954. CITRUS COLLINS


Tom, John, Vodka, Rum, and Mint's baby cousin.


2 ounces orange juice

1 ounce lemon juice

1 ounce sugar syrup

Club soda

 Pour juices and sugar syrup in a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with an orange slice or a cherry.


955. PERSIAN POEM


A sweet, fruity ode to temperance.


1/2 cup frozen or fresh raspberries 1/2 cup frozen or fresh sliced peaches 2 tablespoons honey

2 teaspoons lemon juice

2 teaspoons grenadine

6 1/2 ounces chilled Perrier water

 Put fruit, honey, lemon juice, grenadine, and 2 ounces of Perrier water into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into goblets.

 Add remaining Perrier.

 Garnish with a few raspberries.

(Serves 2)

956. MOON WALKER


Put on your zippered jacket, grab a glass of this, and walk backwards. Come on, you can do it.


5 teaspoons vanilla essence 1/2 cup milk

1 banana

1 teaspoon honey

1 tablespoon yogurt

 Pour vanilla, milk, banana, honey, and yogurt into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a highball glass.


957. CINDERELLA


Here's a secret: this was in the punch bowl at the Princess' Royal Ball.


One part pineapple juice

One part orange juice

One part lemon juice

Splash club soda

Splash grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with club soda.

 Splash with grenadine.

 Garnish with orange and lemon slices, and a cherry.



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
529

958. COCONUT PAW PAW


A popular drink way down yonder in the paw paw patch.


1/2 small paw paw

4 ounces chilled coconut milk 1/2 ounce lime juice

1 teaspoon honey or raw sugar

 Peel and chop the paw paw.

 Pour coconut milk, lime juice, and honey in a blender.

 Add the paw paw.

 Blend until smooth on medium speed.

 Pour into a cocktail glass.

 Garnish with paw paw, strawberries, and mint.


959. BANSHEE DELIGHT


This one will certainly make you wail with glee.


1/2 ounce chocolate syrup

2 inch slice of banana

2 ounces cream

3 ounces ice

 Pour chocolate syrup, banana, cream, and ice into the blender.

 Blend for 15 seconds on medium speed.

 Pour into a parfait glass.

 Dust with nutmeg.

960. CARIBBEAN FLING


You, that special someone, and seven days with no phones or faxes.


2 ounces unsweetened orange juice 1/2 medium banana

2 ounces unsweetened pineapple juice

2 ounces ice

 Put the banana, orange juice, pineapple juice, and ice into a blender.

 Blend for 5-10 seconds or until smooth.

 Pour into a highball glass.

 Garnish with banana and orange slices and coconut flakes.


961. MEXICAN SUNRISE


It's 6 a.m. in Guadalajara and the whole day awaits you.


6 ounces chilled orange juice 1/2 ounce grenadine

 Pour orange juice into a highball glass with ice.

 Top with grenadine.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
531

962. GINGER HONEY DRINK


Sticky and sweet. Indulge in this gooey treat.


1 tablespoon ginger extract

1 tablespoon honey

1 tablespoon sugar syrup

1 teaspoon lemon juice

Pinch of salt

8 ounces club soda

 Pour all ingredients into a cocktail shaker.

 Beat with an electric beater until frothy.

 Pour into a highball glass.


963. CENTER COURT


Serve with love on a grass court.


1/2 pound fresh strawberries, stems removed 1/2 pint sweet cream

2 teaspoons powdered sugar 1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger Club soda

 Combine strawberries, sweet cream, sugar, and ginger in a blender.

 Blend well.

 Pour into a pitcher.

 Add club soda and ice cubes.

 Stir.

964. DRY GRAPE VINE


For when you are getting no gossip at all.


2 ounces grape juice

1 ounce lemon juice

Dash grenadine

 Fill a cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into a chilled cocktail glass.


965. NO-GIN FIZZ


Ebullient effervescent elixir.


4 ounces lemon juice

1 ounce lime juice

1 tablespoon powdered sugar Club soda

 Pour juices and sugar into a collins glass with ice.

 Stir until sugar is dissolved.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
533

966. ORANGE FIZZ


A citrus circus in every sip.


5 ounces orange juice

1 ounce sour mix

Club soda

 Pour orange juice and sour mix into a collins glass with ice.

 Top with club soda.


967. ORANGE AND BITTERS


Simple and delicious. Sometimes life doesn't have to be complicated.


Orange juice

2 to 3 dashes Angostura bitters

 Pour orange juice and bitters into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

968. SHIRLEY TEMPLE


For those voyages on the good ship lollipop.


Dash grenadine

Ginger ale

 Fill a collins glass with ice.

 Add grenadine.

 Fill with ginger ale.

 Garnish with a cherry and an orange slice.



969. SAFE SEX ON THE BEACH


Condom maven Joycelyn Elders would be proud.


1 ounce peach nectar

3 ounces pineapple juice (or grapefruit juice)

3 ounces orange juice

 Pour peach nectar, pineapple juice (or grapefruit juice), and orange juice into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
535

970. SOBER THOUGHTS


The on-top-of-your-game drink of choice for debate teams and chess clubs everywhere.


3 ounces orange juice

3 ounces fresh lime juice

1 tablespoon grenadine

Tonic water

 Pour juices and grenadine into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Fill with tonic water.



971. MUTED TEQUILA SUNSET


Picture perfect every day at six.


2 ounces orange juice

1 tablespoon grenadine

 Pour orange juice into a rocks glass with ice.

 Slowly add grenadine by pouring over the back of a spoon.

 Let grenadine rise from the bottom of the glass.

972. EGG CREAM


Which came first? The chicken or the egg cream?


1 1/2 ounces chocolate syrup

Cold milk

Seltzer

 Pour chocolate syrup into a highball glass.

 Fill 2/3 with milk.

 Top with seltzer.

 Stir.


973. BUBBLETART


Relax in a steamy tub with this refresher. The more bub-bles the merrier.


3 ounces cranberry juice

1 ounce lime juice

3 ounces mineral water

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and mineral water.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass with ice.

 Fill with mineral water.

 Garnish with a lime wheel.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
537

974. CROW'S NEST


Ahoy! Tasty drink now being served off the port bow.


4 ounces orange juice

1 ounce cranberry juice

1/2 teaspoon grenadine

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and grenadine.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


975. CREAMSICLE


Yummy. You'll want to gobble this one up whole, but beware of the brain freeze.


8 ounces orange juice

2 scoops vanilla ice cream

 Put orange juice and vanilla ice cream in blender.

 Blend at low speed.

 Pour into highball glass.

 Garnish with orange slice.

976. INNOCENT PASSION


Abstinence never tasted so good.


4 ounces passion fruit juice Dash cranberry juice Dash lemon juice Club soda


 Pour juices into a highball glass filled with ice.

 Top with club soda.

 Add a cherry and a long straw.


977. LAVA FLOW


The word "volcano" derives from Vulcan, the Roman god of fire. This is what he drank on his more mellow days.


4 ounces light cream

1/2 ounce coconut cream

3 ounces pineapple juice

1/2 banana

1/2 cup frozen strawberries, thawed

 Pour light cream, coconut cream, pineapple juice, and banana into a blender with ice.

 Blend until smooth.

 Put strawberries in the bottom of a parfait glass.

 Quickly pour in fruit and cream mixture for a starburst effect.









 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
539

978. PEACH MELBA


A classic British dessert-in a glass.


8 ounces peach nectar

2 scoop vanilla ice cream

1/2 peach, sliced

3 ounces ripe raspberries

 Put ingredients in a blender.

 Blend at low speed until smooth.

 Pour in a highball glass.

 Garnish with raspberries.



979. BLACKBERRY SOFT DRINK


Teach the kiddies to make this one by themselves.


4 ounces ripe blackberries

1 ounce sugar

1 tablespoon lemon juice

Club soda

 Mix blackberries, sugar, and lemon juice in a cocktail shaker.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Fill with club soda.

 Garnish with a blackberry.

980. CARLOTA


A glassful of garden fresh goodness.


1 1/2 ounces celery juice

1 1/2 ounces carrot juice

1 1/2 ounces apple juice

Dash lemon juice

 Pour juices into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Top with chopped parsley.


981. FLORIDA


A more exotic recommendation for getting your Vitamin C.


2 ounces grapefruit juice

1 ounce orange juice

1 ounce lemon juice

2 dashes sugar syrup

Club soda

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and sugar syrup.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Top with club soda.












 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
541

982. TEXAS BBQ


Hang on, cowboy. This bold beverage is liable to provide a much-needed spicy kick.


Lime juice

Cajun spices

Dash of Worcestershire sauce 6 ounces tomato juice

2 teaspoons barbecue sauce Lime wedge

 With lime juice, rim a highball glass with cajun spices.

 Fill halfway with ice.

 Add Worcestershire sauce, tomato juice, barbecue sauce, and lime wedge.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lime wedge.


983. SUE ELLEN'S NIGHTMARE


Much to Mrs. Ewing's dismay, she'll have to face this one sober.


One part passion fruit juice

One part grapefruit juice

One part guava banana juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Garnish with lime wedges.

984. VIRGIN HURRICANE


Rank: Category 1. No need to take cover with this storm.


4 ounces orange juice

4 ounces sour mix

3/4 ounce passion fruit syrup Dash grenadine

 Build orange juice, sour mix, passion fruit syrup, and grenadine into a highball glass with ice.

 Stir.

 Garnish with a lime slice.


985. VIRGIN SEABREEZE


A gentle lilting lift of fresh air.


3 ounces cranberry juice

3 ounces grapefruit juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass packed with ice.
















 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
543

986. LITTLE PINKIE


Whip him up one of these and he'll be wrapped around your little finger.


3 ounces orange juice

3 ounces sour mix

3/4 ounce peach syrup

Dash grenadine

 Build ingredients in a highball glass with ice.

 Garnish with an orange slice and a cherry.


987. CHAPALA


Spicy and spirited for those who like a smidgen of spice.


4 ounces orange juice

2 teaspoons grenadine

Dash salt

Dash cayenne pepper

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add orange juice, grenadine, salt, and cayenne pepper.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass over ice.

988. ORANGE SMILE


 Even when breakfast comes too early, this one will make you grin.


1 egg

1 tablespoon grenadine

2 ounces orange juice

 Fill cocktail shaker with three ice cubes.

 Add egg, grenadine, and orange juice.

 Shake.

 Strain into a cocktail glass.


989. KON-TIKI


In the book of the same name, a biologist traveled thou-sands of miles across the Pacific Ocean on a wooden raft dubbed Kon-Tiki. Lucky for you, this Kon-Tiki crossing is only as far as the kitchen.


4 ounces milk

3/4 ounce pineapple juice

1 scoop orange ice cream

1/4 teaspoon vanilla

Cola

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add milk, pineapple juice, orange ice cream, and vanilla.

 Shake.

 Strain into a highball glass.

 Top with cola.

 Garnish with a chunk of pineapple.





 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
545

990. GRAPEFRUIT BLAST


We have lift off!


2 ounces grapefruit juice

2 ounces orange juice

2 ounces sour mix

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add juices and sour mix.

 Shake.

 Pour into a highball glass.

 Garnish with an orange slice.


991. CAF\C9 MOCHA


Mochalicious. A caffeine chocolate jolt for any Swiss miss.


4 ounces strong hot black coffee

4 ounces hot chocolate

 Pour coffee and hot chocolate into a large mug.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Dust with cinnamon and nutmeg.

992. JOHNNY APPLESEED


Drink one. Plant a tree. Repeat often.


2 ounces apple juice

2 scoops vanilla ice cream

Splash of orange juice

Splash of club soda

 Blend juices, vanilla ice cream, and club soda in a blender until smooth.

 Pour into a champagne flute.


993. TOOTS


One taste of this and you'll want to down the rest tout de suite.


1 scoop orange sherbet

1 scoop chocolate ice cream

2 ounces orange soda

 Blend sherbet, chocolate ice cream, and orange soda until smooth.

 Pour into a tumbler.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with an orange wedge.













 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Virgin Jacks and Jills
547

994. STRAWBERRY WONDERLAND


Strawberry fields forever and ever and ever.


1 ounce coconut cream

2 ounces frozen strawberries

3 ounces pineapple juice

1 ounce sour mix

2 ounces ice

 Add coconut cream, strawberries, pineapple, sour mix, and ice.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a large brandy snifter.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Garnish with a strawberry.

995. SANTA'S LITTLE HELPER


The favorite break-time refreshment for elves.


3 ounces lemonade

2 tablespoons lime juice

1 scoop raspberry sorbet

1 scoop vanilla ice cream

1 cup ice

Splash cola

Splash lemon-lime soda

Splash grenadine

 Pour lemonade, lime juice, raspberry sorbet, vanilla ice cream, soda, grenadine, and ice into a blender.

 Blend all ingredients until smooth and thick.

 Pour into a pint glass.

 Top with whipped cream.

 Splash cream with additional grenadine.

 Garnish with a cherry.























 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

11



CURES WITHOUT CUSSING-

The Morning After






ore has it that next door to the Economist Loffices in London is a famed and very old-fashioned chemist-D. R. Harris. The shop has a most marvelous hangover cure, which those

in need can buy in a bottle or tincture, or better yet, freshly mixed right there by the chemist for a pound note. Every morning, a procession of old gents in pin-striped suits hustle up to the counter for relief. The bufferest of all old buffers. Those of us, not privy to such European remedies can make our own. All that's needed: The ability to stand and mix.

996. NATIONAL ANTHEM


British in its origin, the National Anthem cure "soon gets you on your feet," so sayeth the Avengers' John Steed, con-summate Brit, consummate drinker, sure to know how to shake off last night's indulgence and quickly return to sav-ing the world.


1 egg

3 or 4 dashes Worcestershire sauce Dash salt

 Mix well.

 Down quickly.


997. PRAIRIE OYSTER


It's the catsup in this one that makes those pesky morning-after demons vanish.


1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

2 dashes vinegar

Dash pepper

1 teaspoon tomato catsup

1 egg yolk

 Fill cocktail shaker with ice.

 Add Worcestershire sauce, vinegar, pepper, and tomato catsup.

 Shake.

 Strain into an old-fashioned glass.

 Drop in egg yolk without breaking yolk.







 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Cures without Cussing
551

998. ABSINTHE SUISSESSE


Absinthe soothes the sinful soul. And the foggy brain. And the queasy stomach.


1 1/2 ounces Pernod

1/2 ounce orgeat

1 egg white

1/2 ounce cream

4 ounces ice

 Pour Pernod, orgeat, egg white, cream, and ice into a blender.

 Blend.

 Pour into a chilled old-fashioned glass.



999. AUSSIE EYE-OPENER FOR TWO


Even burly Australian beefcakes swig this citrus soother.


1 grapefruit

1/2 ripe pineapple

1 lemon

 Peel and chop fruit.

 Use a juice extractor to process the grapefruit, pineapple, and lemon.

 Pour juices into a cocktail shaker.

 Mix.

 Pour into tumblers. (Serve over ice if preferred.)

1000. BANANARAMA


Better than breakfast cereal and you can drink it with your eyes closed.


10 ounces whole milk

1 tablespoon honey

1 tablespoon heavy cream

1 banana

3 ounces ice

 Pour whole milk, honey, heavy cream, banana, and ice into a blender.

 Blend until smooth.

 Pour into a large glass.































 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Index	553


INDEX OF LIQUORS A

absinthe 81, 113, 364, 373, 388, 413, 416, 429, 432, 433, 465 adovokaat 7
amaretto 7, 55, 72, 159, 162, 230, 237, 245, 258, 261, 263, 266, 268, 270, 274, 301, 328, 329, 337, 346, 349, 356, 357, 359, 367, 374, 375, 379, 380, 384, 388, 479, 480, 483
anisette 46, 55, 86, 87, 141, 232, 241, 253, 260, 267, 277, 312, 360, 388, 389, 413, 484
apple juice 33, 160, 163, 505, 506, 540, 546 apricot liqueur 95, 197, 253, 436, 486, 493 aquavit 7, 44, 69

B

banana liqueur 128, 185, 234, 235, 251, 267, 270, 302, 303, 306, 308,

314, 341, 486

beef bouillon 69, 409

Benedictine 92, 121, 153, 224, 257, 260, 262, 264, 276, 390, 397, 413, 432, 474
bitters 41, 63, 66, 78, 79, 81, 84, 86, 91, 92, 94, 96, 110, 113, 117, 122, 124, 128, 130, 132, 136, 141, 143-145, 147-149, 154, 155, 159, 169, 176, 177, 180, 181, 183, 185, 186, 189, 191, 195-199, 205, 206, 208, 218, 220, 286, 287, 296, 302, 316, 326, 329, 331, 332, 363, 388-391, 393, 396, 397, 402-405, 407, 408, 410, 411, 414, 422, 424, 432, 433, 438, 448, 450, 460, 464-466, 469, 471, 472, 476, 484, 488, 489, 493, 499, 501, 504, 505, 533

blackberry liqueur 130, 236

bourbon 22, 29, 40, 61, 75, 81, 95, 97, 118, 126, 167, 221, 248, 306, 395, 403, 407, 418, 424, 432, 445, 479
brandy 3, 7-12, 16, 23, 30, 37, 39, 46, 48, 51, 52, 54, 63, 76, 85, 88, 90, 99, 100, 101, 105-107, 111, 114, 116, 118, 120, 121, 127, 129-131, 138, 139, 143, 145, 148-153, 162, 165, 166, 168, 170, 171, 188, 204, 221, 227-229, 237, 238, 241-243, 246, 248, 251, 252, 256, 257, 259-262, 265, 269, 271, 275, 277, 283, 285, 287, 290, 293, 300, 302, 303, 305, 321-323, 327, 333, 342, 346, 360, 374, 381, 384, 388, 390, 392, 394, 398, 401, 403, 408, 410-412, 414, 415, 420, 422, 425, 427, 429, 430, 431, 433, 435, 437, 450, 452, 457, 462, 470, 473, 474-476, 480, 493 apple 120, 121, 188, 390, 411, 473

apricot 23, 30, 37, 39, 85, 90, 116, 121, 130, 162, 168, 204, 221, 251, 271, 275, 285, 300, 305, 321, 323, 333, 346, 392, 394, 398, 408, 425, 427, 429, 431, 488
blackberry 48, 130, 322, 360, 374, 381

    cherry 101, 149, 237, 285, 346, 384, 414, 420, 495 coffee 256, 342

C

Campari 88, 115, 166, 169, 222, 392, 410

Chambord 127, 161, 211, 338, 340, 344, 356, 362, 380

champagne 27, 28, 33, 34, 35, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 59, 62, 68, 124-130, 132-171, 203, 205, 417, 440, 444, 456, 457, 474, 477

Chartreuse 137, 188, 252, 275, 390, 412, 417, 464, 466, 467, 468, 474, 488 cherry liqueur 58, 138, 171, 309, 424, 478 chocolate liqueur 215, 384, 478
chocolate mint liqueur 24, 234

club soda 25, 26, 30, 32, 35-39, 52, 54, 57, 58, 60, 65, 73, 74, 84, 89, 90, 93, 98, 99, 101, 105, 111, 115, 118, 127, 261, 284, 286, 292, 297, 311, 317, 326, 327, 332, 333, 391, 395, 406, 433, 440, 460, 469, 471, 473, 477, 484, 485, 492, 494, 498, 499, 501, 507, 512, 513, 516, 517, 519, 521, 527, 528, 531, 532, 533, 538, 539, 540, 546

coffee 56, 234, 235, 250, 264, 265, 269, 310, 437, 481, 482, 523, 545 coffee liqueur 56, 75, 80, 232, 233, 235, 238, 239, 240, 241, 244, 245, 250,

253, 257, 260, 266, 272, 293, 306, 309, 336, 338, 341, 342, 346, 356,

357, 358, 359, 360, 367, 373, 385, 458, 466, 481, 487

cognac 23, 26, 42, 50, 51, 87, 130, 134, 135, 137, 145, 146, 157, 159, 201, 252, 254, 417, 449
Cointreau 40, 49, 67, 87, 111, 133, 150, 152, 158, 166, 178, 203, 214, 217, 308, 334, 389, 392, 393, 403, 437, 484, 486
cola 93, 289, 358, 367, 371, 458, 506, 544, 548

cranberry juice 25, 29, 30, 45, 60, 61, 64, 108, 124, 184, 202, 203, 210, 217, 223, 301, 319, 321, 328, 339, 348, 364, 365, 375, 382, 440, 445, 485, 498, 500, 506, 507, 509, 515, 520, 536, 537, 538, 542
cr\E8me de banana 229, 231, 245, 263, 309, 355, 380

cr\E8me de cacao 22, 42, 47, 89, 151, 176, 206, 214, 225, 229, 230, 231, 233, 237, 238, 240, 241, 242, 243, 244, 245, 247-250, 252, 254, 256-259, 261, 262, 268-275, 290, 291, 308, 349, 367, 373, 379, 380, 388, 404, 419, 429, 433, 446, 447, 451, 456, 467, 481, 482, 495

cr\E8me de cassis 116, 157, 400

cr\E8me de menthe 86, 88, 105, 139, 162, 183, 189, 215, 231, 233, 239, 240, 241, 246, 247, 254, 259, 269, 288, 290, 291, 296, 336, 337, 350, 376, 391, 395, 403, 412, 417, 425, 441, 442, 446, 456, 466-474, 478, 482, 490

cr\E8me de noyaux 34, 133, 151, 240, 251, 252, 271, 382, 390 cr\E8me de yvette 243, 413, 435, 447, 477, 478
curacao 46, 91, 95, 99, 137, 145, 146, 148, 192, 253, 266, 268, 273, 277, 287, 402, 406, 412, 425, 432, 433, 463, 465, 470
blue 49, 64, 139, 159, 160, 167, 205, 207, 228, 262, 270, 275, 281, 292, 295, 315, 319, 352, 356, 361, 368, 376, 382, 457, 464, 474-476, 491, 492, 511
green 487

orange 46, 50, 117, 119, 150, 153, 155, 170, 206, 318, 397, 398, 403, 409

D

Dubonnet 69, 94, 100, 117, 122, 165, 176, 405, 415, 419, 420, 425, 481

F

Fernet Branca 70, 479

Frangelico 235, 244, 256, 265, 269, 339, 344, 345, 350, 351, 358, 359

G

Galliano 77, 136, 228, 230, 248, 249, 255, 296, 305, 377, 410

gin 30-32, 36, 38, 39, 45-48, 51, 55-58, 73, 77-79, 81-83, 85, 87-91, 93, 94,


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Index	555

95, 99-102, 109-114, 116, 117, 119-122, 133, 141, 142, 147, 149, 156,

162, 164, 174, 176-185, 187-199, 202, 204, 208, 209, 211-213, 217-

219, 221, 222, 224, 235, 249, 276, 284, 288, 291-293, 307, 308, 323,

325, 327, 330-333, 346, 363, 384, 390-394, 396-398, 404, 405, 407-

410, 412, 414-416, 419-422, 425-428, 431, 432, 434-438, 442, 447,

454, 457, 464, 468, 469, 471, 474, 477, 479, 480, 482, 485, 492-496

ginger ale 35, 36, 56-58, 64, 69, 118, 122, 400, 423, 489, 499, 500, 504, 505, 509, 510, 512, 514, 520, 523, 534
Grand Marnier 109, 136, 166, 184, 187, 201, 223, 232, 235, 269, 316, 338, 350, 366, 370, 389, 407, 481
grape juice 510, 524, 532

grapefruit juice 55, 72, 101, 187, 196, 209, 220, 299, 306, 324, 399, 400, 410, 459, 498, 507, 516, 526, 540, 541, 542, 545
grenadine 4, 10, 25, 30, 31, 34, 35, 45, 67, 78, 90, 91, 95-97, 104-106, 113, 116, 120, 147, 156, 157, 165, 171, 197, 208, 243, 271, 282, 286, 288, 298, 299, 307, 312, 316, 317, 320, 322, 323, 324, 325, 328, 329, 332, 333, 343, 362, 368, 372, 373, 375, 376, 377, 384, 392, 394, 395, 396, 401, 402, 404, 410, 412, 416, 417, 420, 422, 423, 426, 428, 432, 434,-436, 447, 451, 461, 463, 468, 475, 476, 478, 485, 487, 489, 492, 501, 503-508, 512, 516, 518-522, 525, 526-528, 530, 532, 534, 535, 537, 542-544, 548, 555, 562

I

Irish cream liqueur 229, 235, 246, 265, 269, 309, 336, 338, 340, 341, 343, 346, 348-351, 355, 356-359, 362, 367, 369, 372, 373, 377, 383, 385, 466, 467, 481

L

lemon juice 20, 22, 24, 25, 28, 30, 32, 36, 37, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, 57, 61, 63, 67, 68, 73, 85, 86, 90, 94, 101, 105, 109, 111, 116, 125, 126, 136, 140, 149, 150, 152, 153, 156, 159, 162, 165, 168, 196, 197, 208, 210, 228, 240, 241, 253-255, 261, 267, 284, 287, 289, 292-294, 296, 298, 304, 305, 313, 317, 326, 327, 329, 332, 333, 363, 390-394, 396, 397, 403, 406-410, 420, 422, 426-428, 430, 443, 445, 457, 473, 477, 487, 490, 493, 494, 500, 501, 504, 509, 514, 516, 519, 522, 527, 528, 531, 532, 538-540

Lillet blonde 174, 198, 390

lime juice 25, 30, 31, 32, 37, 39, 47, 58, 69, 77, 81, 92, 98, 99, 106, 112, 116, 122, 133, 135, 139, 141, 148, 155, 187, 189, 195, 197, 201, 202, 203, 210, 223, 280, 282, 283, 296, 298, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 309, 313, 314, 315, 317, 323, 325, 333, 334, 338, 342, 343, 353, 356, 361, 393, 395, 398, 399, 400, 403, 405, 408, 416, 460, 463, 486, 501, 502, 505, 510, 518, 523, 529, 532, 535, 536, 541, 548

M

maraschino liqueur 26, 39, 43, 50, 54, 66, 68, 94, 96, 97, 109, 111, 113, 119, 122, 153, 180, 181, 200, 205, 207, 212, 288, 298, 394, 399, 412, 424, 426, 465
melon liqueur 155, 217, 339, 343, 345, 347, 353, 355, 361, 368, 369, 370, 382, 383, 385, 451, 454, 464
milk 22, 39, 46, 75, 229, 238, 244, 248, 281, 283, 287, 368, 430, 452, 453, 476, 480, 524, 525, 526, 528, 536, 544, 552

O

orange juice 27, 28, 33, 35, 36, 39, 40, 45, 47, 48, 50, 55, 56, 58, 60, 63, 66, 67, 68, 77, 87, 100, 105, 107, 109, 110, 117, 119, 122, 126, 128, 130, 133-135, 149, 156, 157, 165, 166, 182, 208, 228, 230, 232, 251, 267, 274, 284, 287, 293, 296, 301, 303, 305, 311, 316, 319, 320, 322, 325, 327-329, 334, 337, 351, 363, 364, 366, 370, 378, 381, 382, 392, 393, 405, 407, 408, 416, 420, 426, 436, 440, 455, 464, 477, 479, 481, 486, 490, 499, 500-504, 507, 509, 511, 512, 515, 518-522, 526, 527, 528, 530, 533-535, 537, 540, 542-546

P

pastis 43, 58, 120, 415, 422, 425, 484

Pernod 42, 43, 57, 95, 100, 146, 176, 177, 186, 190, 232, 306, 378, 404, 438, 447, 459, 484, 490, 492, 551
pineapple juice 24, 29, 31, 36, 53, 61, 65, 66, 70, 97, 109, 145, 162, 168, 175, 195, 203, 207, 235, 262, 281, 282, 284, 288, 291, 293-296, 298-302, 305, 310, 311, 314, 318, 320, 326, 328-331, 333, 341, 346, 351, 355, 361, 363, 365, 368, 376, 379, 381, 382, 385, 398, 408, 430, 455, 476, 479, 485, 488, 498, 500, 502, 504, 507, 508, 511, 513, 514, 518, 522, 526, 528, 530, 534, 538, 544, 547

R

raspberry liqueur 158, 198, 236, 246

rum 36, 37, 42, 83, 84, 86, 93, 96, 97, 98, 102, 106, 112, 113, 115, 116, 122, 128, 139, 148, 164, 168, 170, 195, 251, 254, 255, 262, 267, 268, 272, 280, 281, 283, 285-289, 293, 294, 296-318, 320, 321, 323, 324, 326-330, 333, 334, 346, 350, 351, 353, 375, 378, 383, 385, 392, 395, 399, 403, 409, 417, 418, 423, 426, 428, 430, 431, 434, 452, 453, 463, 475, 476, 488, 489, 491

S

sambuca 185, 233, 263, 274, 340, 352, 362, 401, 442, 490 schnapps 27
apple 446

blueberry 372

butterscotch 340, 358

cinnamon 454

peach 27, 64, 107, 124, 126, 135, 140, 236, 263, 319, 339, 340, 348, 352, 359, 365, 371, 375, 376, 378, 382, 385, 444, 492
peppermint 215, 244, 261, 264, 336, 354, 367, 377, 441, 450, 451, 454 raspberry 10, 138, 158, 198, 203, 210, 236, 246, 366, 372, 483, 556,

557, 564

scotch 72, 79, 102, 141, 178, 190, 194, 211, 308, 404, 406, 433 scotch whiskey 377
sherry 27, 47, 50, 85, 192, 236, 239, 276, 293, 424, 440, 443, 483 sloe gin 98, 199, 337, 345, 370, 378, 408, 479, 486
sour mix 80, 83, 90, 92, 93, 98, 106, 164, 166, 171, 280, 281, 287, 313, 316, 320, 347, 366, 369, 374, 375, 376, 383, 384, 499, 502, 503, 505, 507, 508, 533, 543, 545, 547
Southern Comfort 108, 154, 255, 263, 267, 337, 341, 355, 370, 374, 375, 382, 383, 444, 479, 486
strawberry liqueur 129, 158, 186, 191, 351, 490


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES

Index	557

T

Tabasco sauce 20, 24, 27, 32, 44, 68, 315, 347, 374, 378, 409, 462, 510, 518, 525
tequila 31, 92, 102, 105, 161, 164, 184, 268, 272, 275, 301, 307, 313, 314, 315, 319, 322, 344, 348, 349, 362, 366, 372-374, 377, 400, 447, 458-462, 463, 476
Tia Maria 164, 310

tomato juice 20, 22, 31, 32, 37, 44, 68, 69, 347, 416, 509, 510, 541 triple sec 26, 28, 54, 68, 76, 87, 92, 96, 106, 120, 127, 170, 171, 182, 189,
199, 202, 204, 210, 220, 221, 222, 223, 228, 233, 236, 243, 270, 301,

302, 307, 309, 313, 317, 320, 323, 342, 343, 350, 361, 365, 366, 369,

375, 378, 379, 389, 393, 405, 424, 431, 441, 460, 479, 486, 496

V

vanilla liqueur 273

vermouth 4, 9, 13, 35, 76, 79, 83, 84, 88, 90, 91, 105, 107, 110, 113-115, 117, 119, 120, 132, 160, 174, 175, 177-200, 202, 204, 205, 208, 209, 212, 216, 218, 219, 221, 222, 224, 303, 323, 330, 331, 392, 396, 398, 402, 404, 405, 407, 410, 411, 413, 414, 417, 421, 424, 425, 427, 428, 431, 432, 434, 436, 438, 450, 454, 460, 461, 463, 464, 470, 472, 473, 479, 480, 481, 486, 488, 493, 496, 557

vodka 3, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 32, 34, 35, 40, 45, 56, 60, 62, 66-69, 72, 74, 75, 77, 80, 82, 87, 94, 98, 99, 101, 102, 103, 116, 124, 126, 134, 140, 155, 163, 164, 167, 168, 174, 175, 179, 180-183, 185, 186, 198, 200, 201, 203, 205-207, 209-217, 219-221, 223, 225, 231, 244, 250, 253, 256, 258, 259, 266, 270, 273, 282, 287, 295, 301, 306, 311, 313, 316, 318, 319, 337-345, 347, 348, 350-357, 359, 360, 361, 364, 365, 367, 368, 370, 371, 372, 377, 380, 381, 382, 385, 402, 437, 449, 450, 451, 456, 457, 461, 464, 476, 478, 486, 487, 489, 491, 495 citrus 25, 34, 216, 376, 383, 491

cranberry 371

lemon 202, 440

raspberry 210, 371

vanilla 176, 206, 220, 221, 295, 379, 446

W

water 43, 55, 59, 62, 64, 75, 78, 82, 147, 163, 216, 218, 219, 315, 360, 388, 418, 431, 455, 458, 471, 509, 524, 527, 535, 536
whiskey 57, 73, 76, 78, 80, 85, 92, 103, 104, 120, 132, 143, 175, 240, 247, 248, 283, 284, 288, 331, 353, 368, 389, 396, 400, 401, 402, 416, 423, 427, 438, 465, 466, 467, 468, 470, 471, 472, 473, 481, 482
white port 397, 434, 437, 476

wine 26, 36, 39, 51, 52, 65, 66, 130, 131, 146, 147, 325, 445, 448, 449, 455, 474, 507
Worcestershire sauce 20, 22, 31, 32, 37, 44, 347, 374, 416, 510, 525, 541, 550

INDEX OF RECIPE NAMES


1915 412
78 Camaro 168
90210 Iced Tea 164

A
A Day at the Beach 329
A Good Night Kiss 169
A Little Dinghy 328
A.S. Macpherson 499
Abbey Cocktail 79
Absinthe Cocktail 388
Absinthe Frappe 42
Absinthe Suissesse 551
Acapulco 307
Adrienne's Dream 261
Affair 60
After Eight 336
After Five 336
Afterburner 220
Afterglow 518
Airmail 148
Alabama 99
Alabama Slammer 337 Alexander 89 Algonquin 175 Alien Secretion 385

All-White Frappe 241 Almond Joy 261 Aloha Bubbly 65 Amaretto Alexander 388 Ambassador's Morning Lift 42 Ambrosia 170

American Beauty 105 American Flag 475 American Glory Highball 477 Americana 143 Americano 115 Amorous Duo 483

Angel's Delight 243 Angel's Kiss 243 Angel's Tip 242 Angel's Wing 242 Antifreeze 337 Apple Strudel 163 Apricot Cream Spritz 39 Apricot Fizz 37 Aqua Tidal Wave 382

Arise My Love 139
Astoria 396
Astronaut 313
Atheist's Best 168
Aunt Jemima 262
Aussie Beach Blond 334
Aussie Eye-Opener for Two 551
Aviation 394
Azalea Cocktail 31

B
B & B 260
B-53 338
Baby Aspirin 366
Baby Ruth 339
Baby Titty 413
Bacardi Cocktail 106
Baccio Punch 55


Bahama Mama 293
Bambino Bellini 514
Banana Apricot Frappe 251
Banana Banshee 245
Banana Boat 314
Banana Mama 314
Banana Mango 303
Banana Rum Frappe 251
Banana Slip 229
Banana Split 380
Bananarama 552
Banff 389
Bank Holiday 248
Banshee Delight 529
Barbary Coast Cocktail 308
Barbie Shot 364
Barbotage of Champagne 149
Barracuda Bite 282
Batman 519
Bay Breeze 29
Beach Blanket Bingo 498
Beachcomber 320
Beam Me Up Scotty 341
Bee Stung Lips 312
Bee's Kiss 399
Bellini 125
Bellini Punch 125
Bermuda Rose 95
Berry Happy 524
Betsy Ross 476
Between the Sheets 106
Big Blue Sky 262
Big Pants 520
Bird of Paradise 268
Bird of Paradise Fizz 48
Bishop 96
Bitters Highball 499
Black and White Martini 176
Black Devil 84
Black Lace 263
Black Leather Whip 366
Black Magic 487
Black Monk 264
Black Russian 80
Black Turncoat 458
Black Velvet 144
Black Widow 490
Black Witch 488
Black-Eyed Susan 269
Blackberry Lemon Fusion 517
Blackberry Soft Drink 539
Blanche 389
Blarney Stone Cocktail 465
Blizzard 445
Bloodhound 191
Bloody Bull 22
Bloody Caesar 347
Bloody Maria 31
Bloody Mary 20
Bloody Mary Mix 44
Blow Job 342
Blue Angel 228
Blue Carnation 270
Blue Devil 292



 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES



Blue Diablo 319
Blue Fix 64
Blue Hawaii 281
Blue Lagoon 207
Blue Martini 205
Blue Polar Bear 367
Bordeaux Bitter 164
Bounty Martini 220
Brandied Flip 23
Brandy Alexander 238
Brandy Milk Punch 430
Brass Monkey 311
Breakfast Cocktail 45
Breakfast Eggnog 46
Breakfast Martini 49
Bronx 83
Bronx Silver 110
Brown Derby Cocktail 400
Brunch Punch 37
Bubbletart 536
Bulldog Highball 56
Bunny Mother 67
Buttery Nipple 340

C
Cabaret Martini 176
Cablegram 423
Cadiz 236
Caesar Jr. 525
Caf\E9 Alpine 264
Caf\E9 Mocha 545
Caf\E9 Royale 265
Caf\E9 Theatre 269
Caipirinha 83
Calm Voyage 255
Calypso 310
Candy Bar 345
Cape Cod 30
Cappuccino Cocktail 256
Capri 231
Cara Sposa 266
Cardinal Punchless 500
Caribbean Champagne 128
Caribbean Fling 530
Caribbean Romance 328
Carlota 540
Caroling Wine 455
Carroll Cocktail 107
CasaBlanca 309
Casino Cocktail 94
Cat's Eye 488
Center Court 531
Cham Cham 161
Chambord Royale Spritzer 127
Champagne Blues 49
Champagne Buck 149
Champagne Cobbler 150
Champagne Comfort 154
Champagne Cooler 150
Champagne Cornucopia 124
Champagne Cup 127
Champagne du Marco 50
Champagne Flip 51
Champagne Fraise 129
Champagne Greenbaum 155
Champagne Island 155
Champagne Lemon Granita 34
Champagne Manhattan 132

I n d e x	559

Champagne Napoleon 156 Champagne Normande 132 Champagne Noyaux 133 Champagne Nut Cocktail 151 Champagne Old-Fashioned 136 Champagne Punch 54 Champagne Punch with Kirsch 50 Champagne Sherbet Punch 53 Champagne Sidecar 152 Champagne Sour 152 Champagne Sugarpop 159 Champs-Elysees 158 Chapala 543

Charleston 119
Charlie Chaplin 408
Charlie Rose 435
Chartreuse Champagne 137
Chartreuse Cognac Frappe 252
Cherry Ale 523
Cherry Champagne 138
Chi Chi 282
Chicago 145
Chilly Irishman 466
Chinese Cocktail 96
Chiquita Cocktail 308
Chocolate Coffee Kiss 481
Chocolate Martini 225
Chocolate Orange Drop for Two 214
Chocolate Orange Frappe 230
Christmas Cheer 446
Christmas Martini 454
Christmas Wonderland 446
Chrysanthemum Cocktail 413
Cinderella 528
Citronella Cooler 25
Citrus Collins 527
Clamdigger 32

Classic Champagne Cocktail 124 Classic Cocktail 111 Classic Margarita 92
Climax 270
Clover Club 91
Clover Leaf Cocktail 468
Cobbler's Cooler 316
Cocaine Shooter 367
Cocktail Attack 460
Coco Loco 307
Coconut Cannon Ball 287
Coconut Grove 421
Coconut Paw Paw 529
Cocotini 317
Coffee Alexander 241
Coffee Cooler 56, 250
Coffee Flip 23
Coffee Grand Marnier 232 Coffee Grasshopper 239

Colony Club Martini 177 Conch Shell 304 Concorde 145 Continental 395

Cool Yule Martini 450 Coronation 424 Coronation '37 409 Corpse Reviver 165 Cosmopolitan 202 Country Club Cooler 35 Cowboy Martini 202 Cream Punch 254

Creamsicle 537
Creamy Driver 66

Cr\E8me de Cacao Nightcap 229 Creole 409
Creole Martini 212
Cricket 259
Crow's Nest 537
Crystal Blue Persuasion 295
Cuba Libre 93
Cucumber Champagne 153
Cupid's Cocktail 483
Cupid's Kiss 271

D
Daiquiri 112
Daisy 105
Dean Martini 183
Death in the Afternoon 146
Deep Sea Martini 177
Delmonico 114
Demon Possession 491
Dempsey Cocktail 120
Desert Cooler 108
Devil's Tail 116
Devil's Torch 402
Diamond Fizz 142
Diana 246
Diplomat 200
Dirty Mother 260
Dixie Whiskey 403
Dixie's Rainbow Cooler 522
Douglas Fairbanks 398
Down East Delight 500
Dry Grape Vine 532
Dublin Cocktail 468
Dubonnet Cocktail 94
Dubonnet Fizz 165
Duke 68
Dulcet 253
Dusty Martini 178
Dutch Coffee 234
Dutch Martini 193
Dutch Velvet 234

E
E.T. 343
East India Cocktail 302 Easter Bunny 495 Egg Cream 536

Egg Custard Martini 221 Eggnog Caribbean Style 453 Eggnog for Two 452 El Diablo 400

El Magnifico 273 El Presidente 463 Embassy Cocktail 403 Emerald Isle Cocktail 469 Emerald Isle Cooler 473 English Afternoon 522 Eskimo Kiss 384 Ethel Duffy 425

Euro-Cosmo 217
Eve 146
Everglades Special 272 Everybody's Irish Cocktail 467

F
Fairy Belle Cocktail 436 Fallen Angel 391

Fancy Fix 62
Fare Thee Well Martini 178
FDR's Martini 179
Festival 271
Fifth Avenue 429
Fifty-Fifty Vodka Martini 179
Fiji Blackout 283
Fino Martini 192
Fireworks 476
Five Alive 512
Flamingo Cocktail 323
Flirtini 203
Florida 410, 540
Floridita 399
Flying Dutchman 192
Flying Grasshopper 231
Fog Cutter 293
Fontana 166
Foxy Lady 230
Fraise Fizz 38
Frankenjack Cocktail 431
Frankenstein Cocktail 486
French 75 142
French 90 166
French Dream 246
French Lift 147
French Pirate 170
French Riviera 85
French Wench 69
Frenchman's Folly 218
Frisco Sour 395
Frobisher 147
Frostbite 275
Frosty Sour 40
Frozen Banana Daiquiri 302
Frozen Bikini 126
Frozen Daiquiri 280
Frozen Margarita 313
Frozen Mint Julep 61
Fruity Pebble 368
Funky Monkey 385
Fuzzy Navel 107
Fuzzy Screw Shot 365

G
Galactic Ale 356 Garza's Nightcap 238 Gauguin 304 Geisha recipe 368 Gibson 77

Gigolo Cocktail 421 Gilroy 414 Gimlet 81

Gimlet Limetini 216 Gin & It 414
Gin and Lime 100
Gin and Sin 208
Gin and Tonic 82
Gin Fizz 90
Gin Rickey 89
Ginger Fizz 57
Ginger Honey Drink 531
Ginger Rogers 427
Girlie Martini 205
Glogg 449
Gluhwein 448
Goddess of Love Cocktail 484 Godfather 72


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES



Godmother 266
Golden Cadillac 249
Golden Dream 228
Golden Eye 369
Golden Fizz 93
Golden Gate Cocktail 415
Golden Slipper 275
Golf Martini 185
Good and Plenty 260
Good Morning Fizz 46
Gordon Cocktail 85
Gorilla Milk 309
Grand Royale Fizz 39
Grapefruit Blast 545
Grasshopper 254
Gravel Gertie 68
Great Caesar's Martini 180
Green Demon 353
Green Fire 474
Green Fizz 469
Green Ghost 492
Green Room Cocktail 470
Green Swizzle 471
Green Voodoo 369
Grenadine Rickey 501
Greyhound 72
Gulf Stream 139
Gypsy 219

H
Hanky Panky Cocktail 479
Happily Ever After 64
Harlem Cocktail 109
Harvard 410
Harvey Wallbanger 77
Havana 430
Havana Cocktail 294
Hawaiian Caress 288
Hawaiian Eye 306
Hawaiian Pi\F1a 511
Hawaiian Punch 341
Hawaiian Torch 284
Hawaiian Volcano 370
Headless Horseman 489
Hellfire Club Martini 200
Hesitation Cocktail 427
Hi Ho Cocktail 397
High Roller 221
Holiday Cheer 456
Honey Bee 86
HoneyDewMe 370
Honeymoon Cocktail 397
Honolulu Cocktail 408
Honolulu Shooter 363
Hot and Dirty Martini 181
Hot Buttered Rum 431
Hot Gold 55
Hot Kiss 482
Hot Nutty Irishman 265
Hot Springs Cocktail 66
Hot Toddy 418
Hula Hula 284
Hula Milkmaid 283
Huntress Cocktail 424
Hurricane 296

I
I'll Fake Manhattan 501 Ice Palace 305

I n d e x	561

Iceball 442
Iceberg 189
Iced Danish Mary 44
Icy Blush 513
Imperial Fizz 126
Imperial Martini 180
Incantations 487
Income Tax 464
Indulgence 379
Innocent Passion 538
International Cocktail 87
International Incident 359
Irish Angel 247
Irish Coffee 247
Irish Dream 467
Irish Frost 357
Irish Nightcap 248
Isle of the Blessed Coconut 305
Italian Delight 274

J
Jack Rabbit 496
Jack Rose 394
Jamaica Glow 325
Jasmine 222
Jean Harlow Cocktail 428
Jelly Bean 360
John Collins 73
Johnny Appleseed 546
Johnny Weismuller 428
Jolly Rancher 339
Journalist 189
Jupiter Cocktail 436

K
Kalashnikov Shot 364
Kamikaze 342
Kentucky Cocktail 97
King Alphonse 257
King Cole 103
King's Peg 134
Kinky 371
Kir Imperial 158
Kir Royale 157
Kiss in the Dark 480
Kiss Me Quick 484
Knickerbocker 222
Kon-Tiki 544
Kremlin Cocktail 258

L
La Tuna 460
Lake Breeze 61

Last Thought Cocktail 151 Lava Flow 318, 538 Lava Lamp Martini 198

Le Petit Fizz 167 leap Year 187 Leave It To Me 90 Lei of the Hour 290 Lemon Drop 344 Lemon Drop Martini 216 Lemon Fin 519 Lemonhead 163 Leprechaun 471 Leprechaun Libation 472 Liberty Cocktail 475 Little Green Fairy 474 Little Pinkie 543

Little Red Teddy 380
London Fog 86
London Martini 181
London Special 144
Long Island Iced Tea 102
Long Kiss Goodnight Martini 206
Los Angeles Cocktail 407
Lotus Club Cocktail 438
Love Potion #13 513
Lover's Delight Cocktail 482
Lover's Kiss 237
Loving Cup 417
Low Tide Martini 182
Luxury Cocktail 143

M
Mad Bull 69
Mad Hatter 371
Mad Scientist 372
Madeira Mint Flip 24
Madras 45
Mai Tai 280

Mai Tai Mocktail 515 Maiden's Prayer Cocktail 393 Mango Batida 63

Mango Cooler 40 Mangotini 223 Manhattan 76 Manhattan Hawaii 331 Marconi Wireless 411 Margarita 502 Marguerite 91
Marlene Dietrich Cocktail 402
Marsala Martini 193
Martinez 113
Martini Noir 211
Mary Pickford 97 Max Baer Cocktail 422 May Blossom Fizz 25 Medium Martini 209 Melba 113
Melba Champagne 138
Melon Ball 355
Melontini 217
Meltdown 340
Memphis Belle 383
Mermaid's Choice 303
Mermaid's Delight 290
Merry Widow Cocktail 432
Metropolis 515
Metropolitan 411
Mexican Flag 345
Mexican Rose 362
Mexican StandOff 372
Mexican Sunrise 530
Mexican Wedding Breakfast
Cocktail 27
Miami 296
Mikado Cocktail 433
Milk Punch 22
Milky Way Martini for Two 213
Million Dollar Cocktail 432
Millionaire 95
Millionaire's Coffee 235
Mimosa 128
Mind Eraser 360
Mint Collins 99
Mint Julep 75


Mint Patty Martini 215
Mission Accomplished 343
Missionary 502
Missionary's Mistake 333
Mississippi Mule 116
Mister Darcy 521
Mistletoe Martini 451
Misty Island 292
Mixed Mocha Frappe 233
Mocha Mint 240
Mojito 115
Monday Morning 70
Monkey Gland 416
Monkey Shine 355
Monte Carlo 92, 162
Montego Bay 503
Montmartre 199
Montmartre Special Cocktail 423
Moon Raker 415
Moon Walker 528
Moonlight Cocktail 516
Moonlight Madness 256
Moranguito 373
Morning Call Cocktail 43
Morning Fizz 57
Morning Glory Fizz 433
Morro 195
Moscow Mimosa 134
Moscow Mule 103
Moulin Rouge 199
Mule's Hind Leg 121
Mulled Wine 445
Muted Tequila Sunset 535

N
Naked Lady 392
Napoleon 117
National Anthem 550
Nectarine Cooler 67
Negroni 88
Neptune's Nuptial 288
New Orleans Buck 122
New Orleans Fizz 494
New Orleans Martini 186
New Orleans Night 495
New Year Martini 457
New York Cocktail 104
New York Sour 104
Newbury 204
Nightcap 277
Nijinski Blini 140
No-Gin Fizz 532
Nube Nueve 462
Nutty Professor 350

O
Oatmeal Cookie 358
Oh My Gosh! 359
Ojen Cocktail 41
Ojen Frappe 41
Old Fashioned 78
Opal Martini 182
Opera 122
Oracabessa 267
Orange and Bitters 533
Orange Blossom 87
Orange Champagne 137
Orange Comfort 267


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES



Orange Cosmo 223 Orange Crush 381 Orange Fizz 533 Orange Julia 526 Orange Oasis 58 Orange Smile 544 Orangeade 503 Orgasm 356 Oriental Cocktail 120 Oriental Rug 358 Original Martini 174 Original Sin 171

P
Pac Man 504
Paddy Cocktail 472
Paisley Martini 194
Pall Mall Martini 183
Palm Beach Martini 187
Palme d'Or 210
Panama Cocktail 237
Pancho Villa 346
Panda Bear 258
Panzerwagen 437
Parisian Blonde 268
Park Avenue Cocktail 398
Park Avenue Martini 188
Passion Daiquiri 297
Passion Fruit Cooler 36
Passionate Rummy 289
Peach Bellini 28
Peach Fuzz 21
Peach Melba 236, 539
Peach Mimosa 27
Peachy Sunset 512
Peanut Butter and Jelly 344
Peggy Cocktail 425
Peppermint Patty 451
Peppermint Stick 441
Peppermint Twist 244
Perfect 194
Perfect Peach Julep 29
Pernod Classique 43
Persian Poem 527
Peter Pan 117
Phoebe Snow 100
Pick Me Up 157
Pigskin Shot 347
Pimm's Cup 62
Pi\F1a Colada 281, 504
Pineapple Boomerang 331
Pineapple Cooler 36
Pineapple Dream Cocktail 310
Pineapple Fizz 311
Pineapple Planter's Pickup 330
Pink Almond 240 Pink Creole 325 Pink Gin 110 Pink Lady 78 Pink Lassie 498 Pink Puppy 209 Pink Rose Fizz 485 Pink Squirrel 252 Pisco Sour 63 Planter's Punch 286 Poinsettia 440 Poker Cocktail 330 Pollyanna Cocktail 434

I n d e x	563

Polynesian Paradise 323
Polynesian Pick Me Up 24
Pomegranate Martini 201
Pomme Fizz 160
Pompano 196
Pony's Neck 505
Prairie Oyster 550
Preacher's Panic Punch 333
Presbyterian Cocktail 118
President Roosevelt Cocktail 426
Prince Edward Martini 224
Prince of Wales 148
Princess Martini 186
Princess Mary 249, 419
Princeton 197
Psycho Tsunami 315
Purple Haze 340
Purple Hooter Shooter 338
Push 162
Pussy Foot 526

Q
Quaalude 244
Queen Elizabeth Martini 224

R
Racquet Club Martini 195 Rainbow Pousse Caf\E9 412 Ramos Gin Fizz 32 Raspberry Lemon Fusion 517 Rattlesnake recipe 373 Razmopolitan 210 Red Cloud 197

Red Devil 416, 486
Red Hot Passion 479
Red Lion 109
Red Rooster 34
Reef Runner 321
Renaissance Cocktail 276
Resolution Martini 457
Ritz Fizz 159
Rob Roy 79
Robert E. Lee Cooler 58
Rock Lobster 349
Roscoe Turner Cocktail 426
Rose in June Fizz 47
Rose Petal Martini 219
Roseate Spoonbill 324
Rosy Pippin 505
Roulette 160
Roy Rogers 506
Royal Peach Freeze 135 Royal Screw 135 Royal Smile 420
Rude Cosmopolitan 184
Rum and Coconut Cooler 327
Rum and Pineapple Cooler 326
Rum Collins 98
Rum Julep 315
Rum Rickey 297

Rum Royale 329 Rum Swizzle 84 Rumbas 320 Russian Bear 250 Russian Brunch 35 Russian Coffee 253 Russian Quaalude 351 Rusty Nail 102

S
Sabbath Calm 437
Safe Sex on the Beach 534
Saginaw Snooze 506
Saketini 213
Salty Dog 101
Sambuca Frappe 233
San Francisco 507
San Juan 306
Sangreeta 518
Sangria 26
Sangria Especiale 51
Sangrita 374
Santa Claus Is Coming to Town 454 Santa's Little Helper 548 Santiago Cocktail 298

Sardi's Delight 422 Satan's Whiskers 407 Saucy Sue Cocktail 429 Savannah Cocktail 404 Save the Planet 464 Savoy Hotel 257 Savoy Springtime 133 Sazerac 81

Scarlett O'Hara 108 Scofflaw 396 Scooby Snacks 361 Scorpion 287 Scotch Royale 141 Screaming Orgasm 357 Screwdriver 82 Sea Breeze 30

Sea Serpent's Milk 290 Secret Martini 198 Senorita 463

Sevilla Cocktail 434 Sex on the Beach 319 Shamrock Cocktail 470 Shanghai Cocktail 312 Shark Bite 316 Shark's Tooth 317 Sherried Coffee 239 Sherry Cobbler 440 Sherry Flip 47 Shirley Temple 534 Siberian Sleigh ride 456 Sicilian Kiss 263 Sicilian Martini 184 Sidecar 76

Silk Panties 352 Silk Stockings 447 Silver Bullet 211 Silver Fizz 111 Silver Reign 167 Silver Spider 350 Singapore Sling 101 Six Feet Under 418 Skeleton 491

Skip and Go Naked 384
Slammer Royale 161
Sleepy Lagoon 327
Slippery Nipple 362
Sloe Gin Fizz 98
Smarty 374
Smoky Martini 190
Snack Bite 353
Snow Bunny 441


Snow Cap 348
Snow Shoe 354
Snowball 447
Sober Thoughts 535
Soft Bucket of Bunnies 525
Soho 206
Solaris 375
Sonoma Nouveau 507
Sophia Loren 392
Soul Kiss 481
South Coast Cocktail 406
South Sea Siren 291
South Seas Sleeper 285
Southern Beach 382
Southern Bondage 375
Southside 112
Soyer Au Champagne Cocktail 153
Sparkling Galliano 136
Sparkling Strawberry Mimosa 48
Sparkling Wine Julep 131
Sparkling Wine Polonaise 130
Special Sweet Martini 208
Springbok 376
St. Lo 196
St. Louis Cocktail 255
St. Patrick's Day 466
St. Tropez 207
Star 450
Stardust 376
Starfruit Spritzer 521
Starry Starry Night 514
Stars and Stripes Pousse Cafe 478
Stinger 88
Stockholm 75 140
Stork Club Cocktail 405
Strawberry Colada 508
Strawberry Daiquiri 508
Strawberry Sparkle 59
Strawberry Wonderland 547
Strawberry-Cranberry Frost 60
Sue Ellen's Nightmare 541
Suissesse 232
Summer Rain 33
Sunrise Mimosa 33
Sunset Cooler 509
Supper Sipper 524
Sweet Leilani 332
Sweet Tequila 459
Sweetie Baby 480
Symphony of Moist Joy 417

T
Tahiti Club 298
Tahiti Milkmaid 332
Tango 438
Teddy Bear 354
Temperance Tantrum 520
Tequila Dry 461
Tequila Furnace 462
Tequila Popper 349
Tequila Sunrise 322
Tequila Sunset 322
Texas BBQ 541
Thanksgiving Special 493
The Carolina 169
The Cockroach 458
The Fig 365
The Figgy 212


 1000 BEST BARTENDER'S RECIPES



The Giraffe 459
The Kiss 478
The Lady in Red 377
The Lily 390
The Liqueurice Dream 377
The Pegu 393
The Pernod Demon 378
Third Degree Martini 190
Thunder and Lightning 118
Tidy Bowl 352
Tie Me To The Bedpost 383
Tintoretto 129
To the Moon 346
Toasted Almond 245
Tom Collins 73
Tomato Cooler 509
Toots 546
Top of the Morning 473
Torpedo Cocktail 121
Transfusion 510
Tropica Cocktail 299
Tropical Itch 318
Tropical Passion 378
Tropical Pineapple Paradise 321
Truffle Martini 201
Turbo 461
Twist of a Screwdriver 28
Typhoon 141

U
Un-Funky Monkey 511 Union Jack Cocktail 435 Uptown Gin Martini 218

V
Valencia 130
Vampire's Delight 489
Vanilla Cream Shooter 379
Velvet Bunny Martini 185
Velvet Hammer 259
Velvet Kiss 235
Vendome 405
Vesper Martini 174
Victory 492
Vienna Cold Night Soother 523
Violet Fizz 391
Virgin Hurricane 542
Virgin Lemon Drop 516

I n d e x	565

Virgin Mary 510 Virgin Seabreeze 542 Virtual Reality 156 Vodka Collins 74 Vodka Martini 175 Vodka Mint 21

W
Walsh Champagne Cocktail 154 Warsaw 188

Washington 493 Wassail 443 Wedding Belle 420 Wembley Martini 204 Wheel of Fortune 401 Whiskey Daisy 401 Whiskey Sour 80 Whispering Reef 291 White Elephant 273

White	Grape, Tangerine, and Sparkling Wine Punch 52
White Heart 274
White Russian 75
Whiteout Martini for Two 214 Whiz Bang 404 Widow's Dream 276
Widow's Kiss 390
Wiki Waki Woo 301
Wild Fling 485
Will Rogers Cocktail 119 Windex 361
Winter Sparkler 444
Witch's Brew 490
Wombat 351
Woo Woo 348

X
Xylophone 272

Y
Yankee Doodle Cocktail 477 Yellow Cake 379 Yo Ho Ho 289

Z
Zambodian 381
ZaZa 419
Zombie 300
Zombie Sleepwalker 285

ABOUT THE AUTHOR





Photo (c) Dixie Knight



Suzi Parker is a bartending school graduate as well as an award-win-ning journalist, focusing exten-sively on politics, Southern culture, and sexual mores in the Deep South. She is the author of

the non-fiction book, Sex in the South: Unbuckling the Bible Belt (Justin Charles & Co., 2003).


GO FROM NOVICE MIXER TO EXPERT BARTENDER IN NO TIME

1000 best



Learn the ropes from bartender

extraordinaire Suzi Parker


 101 shot recipes for the perpetually 21

 Over 100 tropical drinks for your next backyard barbecue or beachfront luau

 Recreate the Hollywood glam of the Roaring Twenties and the Vintage Cool of Sinatra and the Rat Pack

 Martini recipes for the James Bond (The Original) or Carrie Bradshaw (The Cosmopolitan) in all of us

 A bartender's must-have list-from essential ingredients to glassware and tools of the trade

 Drinks for New Year's, 4th of July, Christmas and every holiday in between

 Fun facts about some of your favorite drinks

 Drinks for every time of day and every occasion- you'll never have to serve the same drink twice


FROM THE TRIED-AND-TRUE CLASSICS YOU KNOW TO EXOTIC NEW DRINKS YOU'LL LOVE
